Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/100-curly-hair-faqs

August 28, 2024•29 min read ★
We know the curly hair world, particularly if you are new and just starting out on your curly hair journey can feel extremely overwhelming. It can have the undesired effect of leaving you feeling as though you have more questions than answers as to do’s and don’ts, what can or can’t work for your curl type. So we’ve put together a list of the 100 most common questions we have been asked in our capacity as textured hair educators and a retailer of curly hair products in the UAE and GCC.
We aim to address as many curly hair questions in the post as possible.
In this blog you will find answers to the following:
Best suited curly hair product
1. What product is best for my curly hair?
Curly hair in the first instance needs moisture to thrive. A good starting point is a gentle cleanser free of sulfates. Secondly, a conditioner to fortify and deeply moisturise your curls as well as a leave in to prime your hair ahead of styling. Lastly, a styling product or products to enhance your curl pattern and provide hold. Some of our bestsellers include Kinky-Curly Curling Custard, Innersense I Create Hold, TreLuxe Reflex Curl Styling Serum and Camille Rose Curl Maker.
2. What are curly girl products?
Curly girl products are products specifically formulated with the needs of curly hair in mind. These products are generally gentler, less chemical heavy and offer the moisturising properties curly hair needs to thrive, free of sulfates, parabens and mineral oils.
3. Is gel good for curly hair?
Gel specifically formulated for curly hair textures can provide many benefits including curl definition, hold and shine. Many gels formulated for curly hair textures also contain moisturising properties so they will not leave your curls dry and lacking moisture. You may notice a hard cast initially, however that’s just the gel cast forming, this can be broken by scrunching the cast out with a lightweight oil or serum.
4. What products are used to curl hair?
Whilst there are chemical treatments out there that can make your hair curly, this is not something we advocate for, as these types of chemical treatments are extremely damaging to the hair shaft. On the other hand, natural curly hair is something you’re born with and with the right products you can enhance and further define your curl pattern by using the right styling products such as a gel, lotion, cream or foam. These products applied with the right technique such as glazing, scrunching or use of the praying hands technique can reveal the most amazing curls.
5. What is the best hair oil for curly hair?
The best hair oil for your curly hair type depends on your hair porosity, if you have low porosity curls a lightweight oil to seal the hair shaft such as Camille Rose Cocoa Nibs & Honey or Innersense I create Shine are fantastic hair oils. If you have high porosity curls, we recommend more penetrative oils to support filling in the gaps found in the hair shaft, the best hair oil for this is Cachos Brazil (now Rios Curls) High Porosity Hair & Scalp Elixir.
6. Is Rose water good for curly hair?
Rose water is a wonderful hydrating agent for curly hair types and excellent soothing agent for those that experience a dry and itchy scalp or any other scalp related issues. It is rich in vitamins and antioxidants. For curls in need of extra hydration we recommend looking for cleansers and refreshers containing rose water will give your curls that much needed hydration boost.
7. Which brand of shampoo is best for curly hair?
The best shampoos for curly hair are those that are free of sulfates, parabens and minerals, that offer cleansing and hydrating properties. Our bestselling shampoos are Inahsi Soothing Mint Gentle Cleansing Shampoo, Innersense Hydrating Hair Bath and Mielle Pomegranate & Honey Moisturizing and Detangling Shampoo
8. Is vitamin E good for curly hair?
Vitamin E is good for the skin, hair and overall hair health. It is a natural antioxidant protecting against cellular damage that can lead to infection. For curly hair specifically its beneficial in protecting the hair from day-to-day environmental aggressors.
9. Can you use shampoo with Curly Girl Method?
Shampoos can be used as part of the Curly Girl Method. What this method advocates for it the use of gentle cleansers that are free of sulfates, parabens, silicones and mineral oils.
10. Is coconut oil good for curly hair?
Coconut oil offers many benefits for curly hair, as curly hair textures are more prone to dryness. Coconut oil is known for its richness in fatty acids which help to naturally soften the hair. Coconut oil is considered a penetrative oil so can reach deep into the hair shaft to fill in gaps caused by protein loss or general wear and tear. This is a great all round oil for high porosity curls but for curls that struggle to absorb moisture – low porosity curls, if used on its own we recommend using it solely as a pre shampoo treatment or a sealant.
11. Is shampoo good for curly hair?
Yes, shampoo is good for curly hair. Shampoo is a type of cleanser, provided that it is free from sulfates, parabens and minerals we would highly encourage use of a shampoo in your regimen. Two key shampoos we recommend are Gentle Cleansing Shampoo that provides hydration and moisturising properties as well as a Clarifying Shampoo to give your hair and scalp that much needed reset on a monthly basis.
12. What is the best gel for strong hold?
We would highly recommend Jessicurl Spiralicious and Innersense I create Hold for maximum hold for your curls. Perfect for all climates.
13. How do I use mousse to style my curls?
A mousse can be used as your sole styler or your first styler before use of a gel. We recommend you apply to wet hair, take 2-3 pumps of your favourite mousse, emulsify in the palms of your hands for 20-30 seconds and then glaze it over your curls using the praying hands method or raking. After a second glaze, begin to scrunch your curls upwards in the direction of your roots to encourage curl formation.
14. What products are best for fine curls?
Fine curls need products that will not weigh them down, we discourage use of leave in or styling products that contain heavy butters. We recommend Innersense Pure Harmony Hairbath and Conditioner, this range is formulated for fine to medium density curls. A favourite leave in for our fine hair curls is Jessicurl Aloeba Daily Conditioner. For stylers, focus more on the quantity of product used, use a pea sized amount per section, Treluxe Reflex Curl Styling Serum is one of our bestsellers for fine curls.
15. Best products for curly frizzy hair?
If you find your curls become frizzy, we recommend a clarifying wash such as Inahsi Soothing Mint Clarifying Shampoo or a detox such as Innersense Detox Mask, this will give your curls a clean slate to work with, this will ensure your hair’s pH is balanced and you can absorb the nourishment it requires. Frizzy can be a result of an imbalance, product build up, moisture overload or lack of proper conditioning treatments.
16. Is Kinky-Curly Gel good for hair?
Kinky-Curly Curling Custard is a fantastic gel to use as your go to styler for curly hair textures. It is a high-performance gel that will deliver moisture, definition and shine. As it’s a high-performance concentrated gel, a little goes a long way. For best results apply on soaking wet hair.
17. What is the best co wash for curly hair?
Our best selling co wash is As I Am Coconut Co Wash, a lovely gentle no studs cleanser that imparts hydration and moisture whilst gentle lifting dirt, impurities and debris from the scalp and hair.
18. What is the best mousse for curly hair?
Camille Rose Honey Spiked Mousse and Treluxe Soothe & Restore Curl Defining Mousse are amongst our Top 5 mousse for curly hair, offering good hold, definition and lightweight bounce.
Enhancing your curls
19. How can I enhance my curly hair?
Naturally curl hair textures can be enhanced through use of stylers, such as curl creams, gels, mousse or foams. These products are formulated to provide definition and hold to your curls. Check out our styler guide here which ranks stylers based on the level of definition they offer.
20. How to get curls naturally?
Curls are something you are naturally born with. If you previously had curls but underwent chemical treatments to straighten or alter your hair texture, we would advise you go through a transitioning phase to revert to your naturally curly hair texture. This will require you to allow your curly virgin hair to grow through from the scalp and gradually cut off the chemically treated parts of your strands. Alternatively, if your curly texture has grown out enough for you to do a big chop, why not take the plunge? This will allow you to focus on the one hair texture.
21. What food is good for curly hair?
Diet plays a large role in beauty generally, for strong healthy curls we recommend including foods that are rich in iron, protein and antioxidants into your diet. Protein is the building block of healthy hair strands; iron allows for better absorption of nutrients into the blood which feeds your entire body including your scalp where your hair strands emerge.
22. Does diet affect curly hair?
Yes, diet plays a large role in overall hair health. Ensure you are including foods rich in iron, protein and antioxidants into your diet.
23. Is Egg good for curly hair?
Eggs are a good form of protein to include in your diet to support strong, healthy curls. However, we do not advocate for the use of raw egg in DIY product formulations as the molecules are far too big to be absorbed in the hair shaft and provide any lasting results to your curls. It is better to consume them as part of your diet.
24. Does milk help curly hair?
Milk on its own will not have a large impact on your curly hair, however when consumed as part of a balanced diet it’s a good source of minerals and vitamins. Milk such as coconut or rice milk included in your products ingredient list are fantastic as they offer moisturising and strengthening properties.
25. Is banana good for curly hair?
Banana in its raw form will not deliver any lasting benefits to curly hair as the molecules are far too large for proper absorption in the hair shaft, however banana extract alongside other ingredients can deliver moisture and conditioning benefits to curly hair.
26. Does drinking water help curly hair?
Consuming at least 1.5-2 litres of water daily is essential for curly hair. Due to the structural features of curly hair, often at times the sebum produced at the scalp doesn’t always make its way down the twists and bends of curly hair, as a result curly hair is more prone to dryness. Most especially if you are not hydrated enough, hydration levels affect the scalp where hydration is delivered down to the hair shaft. If you are not consuming enough water, you will suffer from a dry scalp and this can impact the quality of your hair strands.
27. Which fruit is best for curly hair?
A variety of fruits are great for curly hair and healthy hair more generally, providing the body with a range of essential vitamins, minerals and antioxidants.
28. How to maximize 3A curls?
Maximising 3A curls starts with an understanding of your hair porosity. It will enable you to focus on key aspects of your regimen to ensure they remain healthy, hydrated and moisturised. For low porosity curls, the use of humectants included in products is key as it will aid further moisture absorption. Remember low porosity curls struggle to absorb moisture, High porosity curls on the other hand lose moisture as fast as its absorbed so the key remains lock in that moisture and filling in the gaps in the hair shaft which allow for more escape routes. Read the porosity section of our recent blog on curl therapy
29. How do men get curly hair?
The same applies to both men and women. Men can achieve curly hair through use of curl enhancing styling products that deliver definition and hold to your curls. For example, Ecoslay Jello Shot Styling Gel, a transformational product that provides maximum definition to curly hair once emulsified between your palms, and glazed on the hair and scrunched at the tips upwards to get the curls to form.
30. Which hairstyle is best for curly hair?
Popular hairstyles for curly hair include a wash and go, half up and half down, slicked back ponytail or pineapple, braid outs or twist outs.
31. Is butterfly cut good for curly hair?
A butterfly cut can look good on curly hair, however what we would recommend is consulting with a curly hair stylist to advise on what cut would frame your curls around your face best.
32. Which vitamin is good for curly hair?
A range of vitamins including Vitamin A, Vitamins B2, B3, B7, B9, B12, Vitamin C, Vitamin D, Vitamin E, Iron, Zinc and Selenium.
33. Is biotin OK for curly hair?
Yes Biotin, also known as Vitamin B7 is beneficial for curly hair alongside other vitamins including Vitamin C, D, E, Iron, Zinc and Selenium
34. Is CG method good for hair?
The CG Method has proven to yield great benefits for curly hair textures as the method is governed by the use of gentle more natural products which have a better absorption rate and are not harmful or damaging.
35. How to curl hair at home?
You can achieve the perfect curls in the comfort of your home using stylers to enhance your natural curl pattern. Ensure you are working on soaking wet hair, then glaze your styler onto your curls and scrunch for enhanced definition. Alternatively you can achieve defined curls using the braid out or twist out method, this requires use of a curl cream to be applied to damp hair, work in sections and twist or braid that section and allow your braids or twists to fully air dry before unravelling.
36. How to make my curls last in humidity?
The secret to lasting curl definition in humid climates are inclusion of Polyquats in your styling products, Polyquaternium-69 for example provides a hydrophopic layer to the hair’s surface, preventing the hair from absorbing moisture from the air, a natural cause of frizz. This can be found in our Best Selling styling gel for the summer months, Jessicurl Spirialicious Gel, it offers extreme hold and frizz control. Read more about our expert tips on summer curl care here.
37. How can I improve my curly hair?
Improving your curly hair starts with an understanding of what your curls need. Curly hair naturally is more prone to dryness so a focus must be placed on moisture infusions into the hair shaft through regular cleansing and moisture-protein balanced conditioning treatments which serve to replenish moisture and build back strength into the hair shaft.
38. What is the best routine for curly hair?
The best routine for curly hair includes a regimen centred around frequent cleansing through gentle cleanser and a clarifying cleanser monthly, conditioning and moisturising. Ensuring your products are free from sulfates, parabens and mineral oils are essential.
39. How do beginners manage curly hair?
Beginners starting out on their curly hair journey should focus on cleansing, conditioning and moisture. Ensuring your products are free from harmful ingredients such as sulfates, parabens and minerals is key.
40. What is hair porosity?
Hair porosity at a basic level is a measure of your hair’s ability to absorb and retain moisture. A typical test of this is to observe how well your hair absorbs water ahead of a shampoo application. If you find it takes a while for your hair to absorb the water and water beads are present on the hair, your hair would be considered low porosity. If your hair quickly absorbs the water but within a few minutes loses it, it’s safe to consider your hair as low porosity.
41. How do I Volumize my curly hair?
To add volume to your curls, start by lifting your hair at the root. A popular technique includes root clipping. Root clipping can be done before or after applying your curly hair stylers, ensure you work in small sections for maximum volume. Volume enhancers also include Innersense I Create Volume, an amazing volumizing lotion or a lightweight volumizing foam such as Innersense I Create Lift Volumizing Foam.
Day to day curl maintenance
42. How to take care of curly hair naturally?
Taking care of curly hair naturally involves a weekly wash day routine which includes a gentle cleanse, conditioning treatment, moisturisers and stylers with natural, gentle ingredients. Curl care outside of your wash day routine includes refreshing your curls with a moisture boost in between wash days and protecting your curls at night with a silk or satin scarf, bonnet or pillowcase.
43. How do I permanently make my hair curly?
If you do not have naturally curly hair, a permanent treatment would be a perm for curly hair. However, its important to note that this is a harsh chemical treatment which will alter your natural hair but can have damaging side effects if not cared for correctly.
44. How to sleep with curly hair?
Protecting your curls at night is essential for all round healthy hair to minimise breakage that can result from friction when your hair rubs against a surface. Before sleeping ensure you protect your curls by wearing a silk or satin scarf or bonnet, alternatively sleep on a silk or satin pillowcase.
45. How to get curly hair overnight?
Curly hair is something you are naturally born with, to see your curls in a short space of time you must focus on achieving curl definition through use of curly hair stylers.
46. Can curly hair become fluffy?
Yes, curly hair can become fluffy as a result of excess exposure to humid environments or moisture overload. However, this can be fixed quite easily by restoring balance to your curls with a detox treatment.
47. Can I put oil on curly hair?
Yes, oils offer benefits to all curly hair types, particularly high porosity curls which loses moisture quickly. Penetrative oils can help fill in the gaps in the hair shaft and prevent moisture from escaping. Oils can be used in pre shampoo treatments, hot oil treatments and/or as a sealant after your moisturising and styling routine.
48. Can curls damage your hair?
Curls cannot damage your hair if they are natural, however if you have used heat styling tools to achieve your curls they can be damaging if a heat protectant is not used before styling and a reparative treatment is not applied after styling.
49. Can I touch my curly hair often?
Yes, you can. However, hand in hair syndrome i.e excessive touching and manipulation of curly hair can lead to unnecessary breakage.
50. Is it good to condition curly hair?
Conditioning is key for curly hair, as it helps to restore lost moisture and protein in the hair shaft and deliver vital nutrients to the hair shaft. Additional benefits include smoothing of the hair cuticle and protection from the elements.
51. Can I straighten my curly hair?
Yes, curly hair can be straightened if desired. We recommend a number of protective measures to ensure heat related damage is minimised including use of a heat protectant such as Mielle Mongongo Oil Thermal & Heat Protectant Spray, a reparative mask to reinforce and strengthen the hair shaft post heat pre and post styling.
52. What makes curly hair grow?
Curly hair grows most in a healthy scalp environment. Ensuring your scalp is clean, stimulated and hydrated is essential for hair growth alongside a balanced and varied diet which will enable essential nutrients to flow through the bloodstream. Focus on leafy greens, nuts, eggs, lean fish and meat. These food groups are nutrient dense packed with iron and protein – the fundamental building blocks of healthy hair. Curly hair growth can be stimulated through regular scalp massages using a stimulating oil such as Mielle Rosemary Mint Oil, Camille Rose Rosemary Strengthening Hair and Scalp Drops and Curls & Potions Chebula and Green Tea Herbal Oil.
53. What protein makes hair curly?
Keratin makes up the bulk of the hair shaft and is responsible for giving hair its shape and structure. Keratin is made up of a range of amino acids including cysteine, an abundance of this amino acid is typically found in curly hair, this is the protein that gives curly hair its texture.
54. How to moisturize curly hair daily?
Curly hair can be moisturised and hydrated daily through use of curl refreshers. Refreshers are a lightweight form of moisture that can be easily absorbed in the hair shaft. However, there is no need to moisturise your hair daily if you are moisturising correctly on wash day, a moisture boost every few days with a curl refresher is complementary.
55. Is Rain water good for curly hair?
Rain water is known to contain a number of minerals and by default softer than the water that comes through the tap at home. It can contain excessive amounts of metal exposure which is known to be damaged, particularly when built up over time. Whilst there are benefits, its hard to say for certain that rain water is good for curly.
56. Is it OK to wet curly hair everyday?
No, we advise against wetting curly hair everyday as it can lead to hygral fatigue, the negative impact caused by the hair shaft swelling repeatedly.
57. Is it good to comb curly hair?
It is not necessarily a bad thing to comb curly hair. However, its important to use a wide tooth comb or detangler designed specifically for curly hair, to avoid snagging on your curls.
58. Will keratin damage my curls?
Excessive use of keratin can damage your natural curls. If you want natural, healthy curls we highly recommend you avoid keratin treatments. Regular protein treatments are required to rebuild the shaft, but this doesn’t require the high dosage of protein that keratin treatments call for.
59. How can I repair my damaged curly hair?
Damaged curly hair can be repaired through frequent reparative conditioning treatments to restore moisture and rebuild the hair shaft, however excessive damage may need to be cut off for healthier curls to emerge.
60. How often should I wash my curly hair?
Curly hair should be washed at most once or twice a week, if washing twice a week, we recommend alternating between a shampoo and a co wash to ensure natural moisture is not stripped from your curls.
61. What weather is best for curly hair?
Moderately warm weather is considered best for curly hair, particularly where humidity is low. Extremely cold or hot temperatures can cause curly hair to become considerable dry.
62. How can I tell if my curls need protein?
Your curls need protein if they appear limp, frizzy and lack elasticity, meaning your hair doesn’t stretch and return to its normal state easily. Hair elasticity can be observed best when your curls are wet.
63. How can achieve the best curl definition?
To achieve the best curl definition, focus on applying your stylers on soaking wet hair using praying hands or raking method. Ensure your stylers contain ingredients that will help with defining your curls such as aloe vera juice, marshmallow root, agave nectar, honey, xanthan gum.
64. Are silicones bad for curly hair?
Silicones can be bad for curly hair if not used properly. Silicones have been given a bad rap due to its ability to quickly build up on the hair shaft, limiting curly hair’s ability to absorb moisture. However, silicones can be useful for protecting the hair from UV exposure or during swimming or water sports, though, we highly encourage you cleanse your hair and scalp thoroughly after using products containing silicones.
65. Is kinky hair curly?
Yes kinky hair is considered curly, typically views as the tightest of curl textures.
66. What are Type 4 curls?
Type 4 curls are on the tighter end of the curly hair spectrum and tend to appear in the form of coils or tight kinks.
67. Why do salons charge more for curly hair?
Salons may charge more for curly hair, as curly hair types require extra attention, time and specific tools and products, to avoid unnecessary breakage and achieve the desired style, for example gentle detangling using fingers before using an appropriate brush or comb. Another example is the process and time taking to diffuse curly hair, instead of a standard hair dryer.
68. What is the cost for curly hair?
The cost of curly hair varies depending on the type of products you use, for more clean, organic products the cost will be higher than the average. Additionally as salon treatments are required at most every 12 weeks for a trim or general maintenance you may find you don’t spend a considerable amount, but if you love to try and experiment with new products your budget may be slightly higher
Curly Girl Method
69. What is the curly girl hair method?
CGM stands for Curly Gurl Method, a method developed and introduced by Lorraine Massey to the curly hair community in 2001. The philosophy behind this approach is the use of natural hair ingredients for textured hair – this includes: wavy hair, curly hair, coily hair, kinky hair textures. By natural ingredients this method discourages use of curly hair products which contain ingredients such as sulphates, silicones and parabens. The belief is that these chemicals are considered extremely damaging if you are looking to retain and maximise your natural curl pattern, a belief we completely agree with.
70. What is a curly girl haircut called?
Curly girl haircut is a method founded upon the belief that curls are best cut when the hair is in its dry and natural state, a curl at a time - curl by curl. The idea is that this approach will allow for more control over the shape and length of your curls.
71. Does CGM cause hair fall?
CGM in itself is not the driver of hair loss, however the process of undoing, unlearning and relearning can be a driver of initial hair loss seen. This can be a natural byproduct as an artificial layer is removed from your hair and you progress on a journey to improve the overall condition of your natural curls.
Current Views on Curly Hair
72. Is curly hair attractive or not?
Curly hair is absolutely attractive, it has the ability to frame your facial features and enhance your beauty naturally without a considerable amount of work. Sometimes, all you need are some juicy, defined curls and a pop of colour and you are good to go.
73. Is curly hair weak hair?
Curly hair is not considered weak hair in the same way straight hair is not considered weak. The overall condition on your natural curls is a function of the products used, hair care regimen and practices you adopt.
74. Is there any advantage to curly hair?
One of the key advantages of curly hair is it is multi-dimensional and can be styled to suit any occasion, bringing out the best of your beauty.
75. Are curly hair healthy?
Curly hair is generally considered healthy. The overall condition on your natural curls is a function of the products used, hair care regimen and practices you adopt.
76. What is the purpose of curly hair?
Curly hair’s purpose is a display of God given beauty; all hair types are considered a beauty feature.
77. Is curly hair good or bad?
Curly hair is fantastic. To bring out the best in your natural curls, we highly recommend building a hair regimen suited to your curl type and with your hair’s needs in mind. Contact our team of curl experts who will guide your through the process of building the most appropriate regimen for you here.
78. Why curly hair girls are beautiful?
Curly hair girls are beautiful as their unique beauty has been enhanced by their hair texture, curls represent something that’s natural, desirable and very attractive. It adds an additional level of dimension and depth to one’s beauty. God was showing off when he created curly hair girls.
79. Is curly hair attractive on guys?
Curly hair is equally as attractive on women as it is on guys, many of today’s male stars that are considered extremely attractive have curly hair. Harry Styles named one of the hottest stars in recent years has naturally curly hair.
80. Do girls love boys with curly hair?
Girls absolutely love boys with curly hair, when curly hair is natured it thrives and becomes a central beauty feature.
81. Will curly hair suit me male?
Curly hair suits males as much as it suits women. Curly hair is not gender specific and is considerably attractive on both males and females.
82. Is curly hair attractive to woman?
Curly hair is attractive to women and men, there is just something about natural curls that is so refreshing, unique and desirable it’s hard for curly hair not to be attractive to both genders.
Curly Hair Related Changes
83. How to remove curls from hair?
If your hair is naturally curly, you cannot permanently remove them, however you can undergo semi permanent treatments to alter your hair texture, such as Brazilian blow outs and other keratin based treatments, however these are extremely harmful and damaging and this is something we advise against.
84. Can curly hair go away naturally?
Curly hair can go away naturally but typically this is only temporary, largely as a result of hormonal changes commonly triggered by a drastic change in life events, stress, surgery or diet.
85. Do curls change with age?
Curls do and can change with age. As we age, our hormonal composition changes which is one of the primary drivers of a change in hair texture.
86. Can stress curl your hair?
Yes, stress can cause your hair to curl. Stress contributes to hormonal changes, a key driver of changes seen in hair textures.
87. What causes curly hair after pregnancy?
Curly hair after pregnancy is typically the result of the major hormonal changes a woman’s body goes through during pregnancy and the considerable drop in those hormones postpartum.
88. Can pregnancy make my hair curly?
Pregnancy can certainly make your hair curly; this is due to the major hormonal changes a woman’s body goes through. These hormonal changes have an impact on the shape of your hair follicles, which is what gives hair its texture.
89. Does pregnancy cause frizzy hair?
Yes, pregnancy can cause frizzy hair, this is hormone driven. A woman’s body goes through a incredible transition during pregnancy, causing a surge in hormones which can alter hair texture, skin and other features.
Origin of Curly Hair
90. Where does the DNA for curly hair come from?
Studies have suggested that the DNA for curly hair is hereditary, specifically a gene which controls the shape of our hair, this is known to produce a protein called TCHH which has distinct variants which are associated with different follicle shapes that give hair its texture, according to an article published by Medical News Today.
91. Will the baby have curly hair if the mom has curly hair?
It is possible a baby will have curly hair if the mom has curly hair, as hair texture is known to be inherited from parents. However, there is also a possibility that a baby will not have curly hair, if the father’s hair texture is different.
92. Does curly hair come from mom or dad?
Curly can come from either parent, as hair texture is known to be hereditary.
93. How is curly hair genetic?
Studies suggest that our hair texture is hereditary, arising from a gene that determines the shape of our hair. This gene is known to produce a protein called TCHH which has distinct variants which are associated with different follicle shapes.
94. Are you born with curly hair?
Yes, naturally curly hair is a hair texture you are born with. Hair texture is known to be inherited from your parents.
95. What age do babies get curly hair?
Curly hair is apparent right from birth, however babies hair texture can and will typically evolve through the early months but can be determined more accurately by the age of 2.
Cultural links to Curly Hair
96. Which country is known for curly hair?
Countries within the African, Mediterranean and Middle Eastern regions are most known for curly hair. However, this is not to suggest people in other regions or countries cannot have curly hair.
97. Do most Arabs have straight or curly hair?
Although, it can be said that many Arabs have naturally curly. A study was conducted to determine variances in hair density among individuals of different ethnic backgrounds. The study of Arabs using a population size of 120, showed that of the 120 individuals, 63.4% had textured hair – either wavy hair or curly hair.
98. Is curly hair common in Saudi Arabia?
Curly hair is becoming increasingly common in Saudi Arabia with many locals now embracing their natural curls as part of the wider shift in beauty standards we are seeing across the Middle Eastern Region.
99. What is Arab hair like?
Arab hair texture is varied with some Arabs with straight, wavy or curly hair types. What studies have shown is that Arabs have higher hair diameters than Africans, Caucasians, Asians and Hispanics, meaning Arabs have thicker hair naturally.
100. What ethnicity is more likely to have curly hair?
People of Black, Hispanic, Arab and sub ethnic groups within Asian such as Indian are more likely to have naturally curly hair.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/15-popular-animals-with-curly-hair

January 02, 2025•8 min read ★
TABLE OF CONTENTS
- Introduction
- The Evolution of a Dog’s Curly Hair
- Animals with Curly Hair
- FAQs
- Conclusion
INTRODUCTION
Similar to humans, dogs, and other animals can also have different hair textures, like straight or curly. Nonetheless, when it comes to how much they shed, a common myth is that the curlier, the less they shed. This was probably derived from the fact that poodles have low to non-shedding. But puppies can carry low to non-shedding genes from their poodle lines while still having curly or straight hair.
Curly hair may have given some animals an edge, while it may have done the opposite for others. Nonetheless, they’re extremely popular and continue to be so in the years to come. There are some fascinating animals with curly coats that add to their aesthetic look and appeal.
THE EVOLUTION OF A DOG’S CURLY HAIR
Based on a new study, the poodle’s tight curls to the straight fur of a beagle stems from variants in three genes in various combinations. It’s said that modern dog breeds diverged from wolves around 15,000 years ago. Nevertheless, in the past 200 years, selective breeding has created dogs with a range of qualities.
Curls in animal coats have evolved through the years as mutations and breeding changed.
- 
Genetic VariationOver time, genetic mutations can lead to different types of hair coats. In curly hair dogs, specific genes, such as the KRT71 are responsible for the curliness and texture of the fur.
 
- 
Selective Breeding and DomesticationAs humans started to domesticate wolves into dogs, they bred individual traits selectively, for various purposes, including companionship, hunting, or herding. Curly hair may have been favored because of hypoallergenic qualities, aesthetic reasons, or as protection from the harsh weather. The curly coat in poodles helps trap air that provides warmth and buoyancy.
 
- 
Natural SelectionCurly coats, in some environments, have advantages in terms of survival. This led to natural selection favoring dogs with curly coats. From generation to generation, these traits became more pronounced in certain dog breeds.
 
POPULAR ANIMALS WITH CURLY HAIR
The following are some quirky, popular, and unusual animal breeds with lovely, curly locks.
1. Poodle
A poodle, whether standard, miniature, or even a toy, is going to have curly hair. Poodles remain one of the most popular dog breeds. Poodles do not shed and are hypoallergenic, making them great for people with allergies. Nevertheless, poodles of all sizes require regular trimming and brushing to prevent their fur getting matted and tangled.
2. Selkirk Rex Cat
With its distinctive curly fur, the Selkirk cat is a breed that stands out in the feline world. Physically, it’s a medium to large cat with a robust build. The fur is plush and wooly and comes in various colors, with loose unstructured curls that give it a teddy bear appearance.
3. Mangalica Pig
A breed known for its curly, woolly hair. Often referred affectionately as a ‘sheep-pig’ because of its unique fleece, this pig breed hails from Hungary. Mangalicas are cloaked in curly, thick hair that makes them very suitable to the hair winters of their country. The coat of the Mangalica pig could vary from light blond to a deep, rusty red.
4. American Bashkir Curly Horse
This horse breed captures the imagination with its spiraled, distinctive locks. Moreover, this breed is not only renowned for its unique coat but for its historical significance as well. These horses are beautiful to look at, with a range of curls that could be loose waves to tight ringlets.
5. Airedale Terrier
Bred originally around the factories of Aire, England, this dog breed is sweet and loyal. They can, however, be challenging to train as well. The tight, wiry coats required regular brushing but in general, they only need a haircut a few times a year.
6. Puli
A Hungarian herding dog, a Puli is a small-medium breed. It’s renowned for its long, corded coat. The long, curly hair forms into dread-lock curls, giving the appearance of a four-legged mop. The coat can be combed out to give a resemblance of a giant puffball or trimmed short. Puli family dogs are obedient and playful.
7. Angora Rabbit
A distinctive breed that’s celebrated for its soft, long, and naturally curly fur. Originally from Ankara, Turkey, these rabbits are a staple in the textile field for centuries. There are three types of Angora Rabbits. 
The French Angora has a silky, dense wool with fewer facial furnishings, thus, it has a more simplified look. The English Angora is covered in fur from the ears to the feet, making them look like fluffy balls. The third type is the Giant Angora, which is the biggest and requires ample grooming.
8. Lincoln Sheep
A spectacle to behold, the Lincoln Sheep boasts of one of the longest and heaviest fleeces among sheep breeds. Furthermore, the wool is not just curly but incredibly shiny as well, giving it a distinctive appearance. The fleece typically comes in shades of white, but there are some with natural-colored, beautiful shades.
9. Curly-Coated Retriever
The curly coat is simply amazing. These dogs are large and sturdy, covered in tight, ringlet curls that do not require much trimming and need not be brushed. A curly-coated retriever is the tallest among the retrievers and can be distinguished easily by the mass of tight curls that cover its body.
10. Frillback Pigeons
Frillback pigeons are known for their ornate curly feathers. They’re a sight to behold with the most striking feature, which is the curls or fills on the wing shields. They also come in different colors, such as black, red, blue, and white, each adding to their visual appeal.
The physical characteristics are not limited to the curly feathers. They come in different hues, such as red, blue, black, and white. With feathering that extends to their crest, it gives them a somewhat regal appearance. 
11. Bichon Frise
A stuffed toy look-alike. This kind of dog breed is hypoallergenic and does not shed. Bichons are one of the most popular breeds of curly dogs that love spending time with families and are great apartment dogs. They do not require regular grooming and daily brushing to avoid their fluffy coats getting matted. They are great apartment dogs.
12. Irish Water Spaniel
The Irish Water Spaniel has the face of a Cocker Spaniel and the coat and size of a standard poodle. Hypoallergenic, it’s a clown dog with a strong sense of playfulness and boundless energy. The coats contain oil, making them water-repellant. The coat color is a chocate-brown to liver-puce hue with a distinct purple undertone, which is rarely and even not seen in other breeds.
13. Portuguese Water Dog
Portuguese Water Dogs, although shredders, are hypoallergenic. They are medium-sized dogs bred for corralling fish into nets. The thick coats protect them from frigid water temperatures. Nowadays, these easily trainable and lovable family dogs require daily brushing and an occasional trim to keep hair out of their eyes.
14. Barbet
Barbets, with long and shaggy hair in different colors, often are spotted with a hair tie or barrette to keep the fur out of their eyes. While they’re low shredders, these playful, friendly dogs should be brushed once a week so their thick fur does not tangle or mat. These clever pups love swimming and they should also be kept exercised and busy.
15. Labradoodles
Not an official breed, but these dogs are a cross between a Labrador retriever and a poodle. With wavy, curly, wiry hair, they’re among the most popular ‘must’ around. Whatever the coat is like, a Labradoodle does not shed but requires regular brushing. They’re definitely people pups, these dogs are active and playful.FAQs
1) Why are there curly-haired animals?
In animals, curly hair typically comes from genetic mutations, which alter the hair structure.
2) Are there curly-haired horses?
Although there is no horse breed known only for curly coats, some horses across different breeds sometimes develop curls, particularly during winter, which helps insulate their bodies. 
3) Are there birds with curly feathers?
Yes. Some birds have curly feathers. While these feathers may affect their flying ability, they add unique beauty and appeal to their appearance.
4) Can cats have naturally curly hair?
Cats with curls are a unique and fascinating breed. The distinct coats set them apart from other feline breeds.
5) Are there curly-haired rabbits?
Yes. One fine example is the Angora Rabbit as mentioned above.
6) What is the use of a curly-haired horse?
Curly-haired horses are versatile and can be used for different purposes, such as ranch work, endurance riding, trail riding, and many more. They are also considered therapy horses because of their calm and gentle nature.
CONCLUSION
Curly-haired animals are beautiful to look at, particularly dogs. It adds to their appeal and charm. It’s interesting to note that some animals, just like humans, have curly hair as well. To find out more on how to care and groom curly hair, there are many reasons on the web. 
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/2026-curly-hair-trends

December 24, 2025•5 min read ★
Curly hair evolves every year - and 2025 was a pivotal moment for education, science-led routines and performance first styling. In the UAE and GCC, environmental factors like humidity, dry air and hard water continue to shape the products and techniques that deliver the best results.
As a curl authority in the region, Emerson analysed the shifts seen throughout 2025 and identified the five trends we believe will lead and define curly hair care in 2026.
Trend 1 - The Base Gel/Top Gel Era is Here to Stay
2025 cemented one curly hair truth: no single styler can deliver everything your curls need. Slip, softness, elongation, definition and hold simply cannot be engineered into one product formula without compromise. This is why the Base Gel / Top Gel pairing continues to grow in popularity, particularly in heightened humidity.
Let's explain why this how and why this paring works well particularly in Dubai and the wider Middle East region.
- Base Gel → moisture cushion and first layer of definition and elongation
- Top Gel → provides a firm hold and humidity resistant top coat for style longevity.
This is the ultimate curly hair hack for definition that lasts in the Middle East. Pairing the gels requires knowledge of product formula compatibility, to avoid costly trial and error.
One of our favourite combinations as featured in our seasonal Summer Curl Edit (Quench for High Porosity) is Uncle Funky's Daughter Curly Magic paired with Innersense I Create Hold - the results sculpted definition and elongation, especially for tighter curls that holds beyond Day 3.
We expect this trend to remain a staple in 2026.
The key is to adopting this method correctly and not blinding. Adopting this without adjusting for curl porosity, density or product compatibility. This is where most people misapply trends.
Our 2026 Curl Translation Guide explains how to layer stylers without stiffness, flaking or dryness.
Trend 2 - Scalp Care Steps Into the Spotlight
We've finally seen a major shift in scalp care in 2025, particularly with the rise of Cecred Restoring Hair & Edge Drops. This is not to say Cecred were the first to do it, however with their large, captive audience they have been able to dominate this space which has been underserved for years due to lack of education.
The curly hair space has finally realised that hair oils do not equal magic hair growth. We've highlighted this for several years that water based scalp serums should be applied first to hydrate the scalp and allow for better growth results, this train of education is now gaining momentum.
For sensitive scalps, lightweight penetrative formulas are essential, clogging your scalps pores before hydrating will leaded for further scalp inflammation which can kick start an endless cycle.
2026 will bring more scalp led education, more routines combining serums and oils (in the correct order) and a rise in non-irritating hair growth solutions. We believe this sets the stage for scalp care to feel less like a separate category and more like the foundational layer in curly hair routines, especially in the Middle East.
Trend 3 - The Hair Foam Renaissance
After years of gel-first styling, modern hair foams have made a strong return in 2025.
Unlike their drying, alcohol loaded foams of the past, todays foams formulated for textured hair include more moisturising ingredients and offer:
- Lightweight definition
- Volume without the stiffness
- Faster styling for quick styling routines
- A bouncy, breathable finish ideal for hot climates.
A foam that has set the standard in 2025 - The Doux Mousse Def Texture Foam
In 2026, we expect more people to choose foams for every day, soft texture styling - particularly for wash 'n' go routines.
Trend 4 - Haircare Like Skincare
2025 blurred the line between haircare and skincare in many respects, particularly with the use of actives in product formulations. We are so pleased to see this level of innovation being introduced in the curly hair care space, it's been long overdue.
Actives such as peptides, ceramides, caffeine, charcoal now appear in targeted treatments and solutions.
Curly and textured hair deserves:
- Real, measurable results
- Ingredient transparency
- Solution led innovation
- Increased focus on scalp health as the foundation for healthy curls
We're certain this trend will accelerate in 2026, especially with more research backed formulations entering the curly hair market. The key is actives with the right context, no hype.
Trend 5 - The Curly Pixie is Poised for A Comeback
We're calling it: 2026 may be the year of the curly pixie.
Mid to long curly lengths have dominated for years but with fashion cycles leaning towards bolder silhouettes and more women embracing shape and freedom, short curls are poised for renewed attention.
If the curly pixies rises - remember who said it first!
Curly hair is continuously evolving for different patterns, cuts , so are product, routines and methods to support them. If you're navigating your curly hair journey and based in the Middle East, known what's next gives you the advantage of smarter more intentional curl care.
2026 isn't about chasing what's new. It's about choosing what works, intentionally.
Get the 2026 Curl Translation Guide
Design to guide you on what to adopt. What to ignore. How to apply trends without compromising on your hair's health and fit within the climate.
Explore the Emerson-curated selection tailored for curls in the Middle East
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/arab-curly-hair

August 23, 2024•6 min read ★
Curly hair has for centuries always been linked to individuals of Middle Eastern and African ethnicity. We find it interesting that such a generalisation can be made as there are always exceptions to every rule. Let’s uncover the truth.
Hair is a large beauty feature we all take pride in, it forms part of our identity, rooted in culture and history and adds to global diversification, yet still we often find many want to permanently alter their God given texture. Temporary changes to your hair texture are always welcome, variety is the spice of life after all. So, an occasional straightening of your curls is not frowned upon here at Emerson, however what is of most importance is a good understanding of how to protect your natural curls from heat related damage.
The notion of curly hair being problematic, undesirable or unacceptable in modern day Middle East is what we don’t subscribe to. Curly hair is not something that needs to be “undone” or “corrected”, it’s something to be embraced, nurtured and loved.
Is curly hair linked to ethnic background?
There are numerous articles published online questioning whether curly hair is specific to ethnicity and the truth is to some extent it is, as with the passage of time and more and more inter-racial relationship developing, DNA continues to evolve as such we may never really be able to trace the originating ethnicity of curly hair. However, what we can tell you with confidence is that curly hair is determined by your DNA.
According to an article published by Medical News Today, Scientists have identified that a specific gene controls the shape of our hair, this gene is known to produce a protein known as Trichohyalin (TCHH) which strengthens and builds the hair shaft. This gene is known to have distinct variations which are associated with different hair textures and follicular structure globally.
It’s important to remember that the shape and texture of your hair stems from the hair follicle not the hair you see emerging from the scalp.
Outside of this particular gene, there are a number of additional genes which have been recently suspected to contribute to one’s hair texture. Some of which have suggested that your hair texture can be inherited from your parents and/or affected by your environment. So in a nutshell, there is more than one contributing factor to hair texture. This goes back to the point that a generalisation cannot be made that all Arabs have curly hair.
Arab population and curly hair
Although, it can be said that many Arabs have naturally curly. A study was conducted to determine variances in hair density among individuals of different ethnic backgrounds. The study of Arabs using a population size of 120, showed that of the 120 individuals, 63.4% had textured hair – either wavy hair or curly hair. We can’t say we are particularly surprised by the results, given that more than half of the world’s population has natural textured hair. Textured hair meaning coverage of the entire curly hair spectrum from wavy through to curly, coily and right through to the kinkiest of hair textures.
While many Arabs have this curly hair feature, why does curly hair remain somewhat stigmatised in the Middle East?
One key point the study did highlight is that Arabs have higher hair diameters than Africans, Caucasians, Asians and Hispanics which essentially means how thick the individual hair strands are. Does this then mean that Arabs with curly hair types have a lot of hair? Is this a possible explanation as to why there is still this notion in the Middle East that curly hair is problematic and undesirable?
For too long curly hair has been “tamed” into submission through chemical straightening treatments in response to trying to conform to western standards of beauty, yet still when time calls for a signature Hollywood curls style like Marylin Monroe, there is a rapid response to suit what is in style. This notion of confirming to western standards of perfectly sleek and straight hair goes back to this unfortunate and deeply ingrained perception that typical European beauty features are superior.
If you take a brief glance at the typically offering of a hair salon in the Middle East, a keratin treatment always appears top of the list, which signifies it still has considerable importance in the Middle Eastern Beauty world. All in the same, we see an increase in the number of salons dedicated to curly textured hair. Check out our post on top recommended salons dedicated to curly hair in the UAE with latest addition, Russian owned Twist Curly Hair Salon in Dubai and Boho Salon with their second location now in Dubai.
We would like to think society is making some progress to change this narrative considering the revival of embracing your natural curls post pandemic. Yes there’s still a long way to go, however in this day and age of social media and influencers, that change could come about a lot faster. Take Iraqi Influencer, Sarah Angius for example, she does a great job of reminding her followers every day on Instagram that natural curls are beautiful, manageable and desirable and it is completely ok to switch up your look if you want to use a straightener or other heat styling tools but there is always a point of return to your natural curls.
At Emerson, we are of the view that people with naturally curly hair who chose to chemically treat their hair do not know just how damaging excessive use of chemical treatments are and as such continue in ignorance. It’s our job to continue pushing and advocating for more appreciation and adoption for natural curls through hair education and wider awareness here in the Middle East. We know change has begun, but that change needs to be sustained and pushed even further. Once you embrace your natural curls and learn to love and nurture them, your hair can only flourish going forward. It’s our job to be that change we want to see.
To conclude, we go back to answering the question: All Arabs Have Curly Hair, Is This a Generalisation? Yes, this is a generalisation, as the post has described and evidenced Arabs have a range of different hair textures with approximately 63% of the Arab population having textured hair - wavy or curly, in line with global statistics.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/beauty-conditioning-curly-hair

November 26, 2025•5 min read ★
What is Beauty Conditioning?
We learn it long before we ever understand it. How the world taught women with curly hair to shrink themselves and why we're finally unlearning it.
The silent training. The unspoken rules. The invisible expectations that shape how women move through the world, how we show up and how we see ourselves.
It's called Beauty Conditioning, the subconscious shaping and programming that teaches women to conform to the traditional idea of beauty leading women to shrink, silence, adjust, modify or apologise for what they look like.
Beauty conditioning tells us:
- Straight hair is professional
- Curls look untamed and messy
- Volume is "too much"
- Small is prettier
- Blend in - don't stand out
- Be polished, not loud
And without realising, we obey and conform. In doing so, we burn, brush, rip, flatten and hide the natural hair texture we were born with. Not necessarily because we dislike our curly hair, but because the world has quietly taught us to. Power has always been attributed to smoothness, uniformity and not texture or volume.
The Internal Battle Between Identity & Beauty Standards
For many women, the mirror becomes the battle ground between who we truly are and who we were conditioned to be. Identity has almost become something we negotiate instead of something that is inherently ours. We spend years, sometimes decades trying to "fix" what was not broken to begin with.
This emotional tension is the core of our editorial storytelling series: In Her Mirror, which explores the psychological journey of a woman learning to rediscover her identity through her curls. The private moments. The internal dialogue. The learned shrinking. The shift that occurs is almost tangible when she finally takes up space.
If you missed the last chapter of her journey, Episode 2 is live.
[ Watch Episode 2: A Note For Her Curls ]
Framing vs Fixing Curly Hair
In Episode 3 of In Her Mirror, we witness a turning point when a stylist disguised as a stranger encourages her to honour her curls instead of trying to "fix" them.
Her desire to shape her curls stemmed from the belief that her curls needed to be fixed as opposed to being honoured through a face framing curly haircut.
To fix implies something is broken. To frame implies something is worth honouring.
She pauses. She questions the old rules she never chose. She takes up space. She stops shrinking.
Her curls should frame her face, not hide it. This small decision is revolutionary.
Because beauty conditioning loses power every time a woman chooses herself.
Healing Your Relationship With Your Curls: Starting At Home
Unlearning beauty conditioning begins with learning how to understand and care for your curls on your own terms, not according to someone else's standards.
Before you sit in any salon chair, the most powerful step you can take is building confidence and results at home with products that work with your texture and not against.
That's why we develop seasonal edits - scientifically led, suited to your curl porosity and climate.
Building a Curly Hair Regimen
In Dubai, the UAE and wider Middle East curly hair texture is affected differently by the regional climate, heat and humidity affects textured hair in a way it doesn't in other regions. The right foundations, correct cleansing methods, hydration, sealing in moisture and maintaining that moisture guide how our curls behave.
Read our full guide: How to care for curly hair in the Middle East to learn more about what your curls need in this climate.
Building your curly hair routine requires an understanding of your hair porosity to minimise trial and error, we developed a clear guide to help you understand your curl porosity.
Read: Why understanding your porosity is essential for your curly hair routine.
If you already know your porosity, you can jump straight to shop your curl essentials:
[ Low Porosity Curl Essentials ] [ High Porosity Curl Essentials ]
Your relationship with your curls begins with you.
The Future of Beauty is Unconditioned
We are entering a new era where beauty is no longer measured by likeness, smoothness or a standard. Where hair is not a problem to solve but a story to tell. Where texture is not tamed but celebrated. Where identity is not corrected but expressed and where acceptance is no longer the reward for compliance.
The future of beauty is unconditioned and it begins with the courage to rewrite the script.
Watch Episode 3: Framing Her Face
Episode 3 captures the moment a woman recognises that her curls are worthy of honour. A few words said by a stranger cause her to realise how she'd been conditioned.
[ Watch Episode 3 on Instagram or YouTube]
About In Her Mirror
In Her Mirror is an editorial storytelling series by Emerson – the Middle East’s first curl lifestyle destination – which explores how women with curly, textured hair see themselves in private, with a spotlight on that internal monologue that often causes us to second guess our curls. Shot in Dubai, the series captures identity, representation and the evolving narrative around curly hair and curl culture more broadly in the region.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/best-curly-hair-products-uae-saudi-2025

May 21, 2025•9 min read ★
Navigating Curly Haircare in the GCC - Expert Tips
If you’re new to the GCC or have been here a while, yet still struggle to get access to the best products for your hair texture or simply don’t know where to start with your curly hair routine in 2025, this blog post is for you.
You’re not alone if you find yourself asking, why have my curls become more unmanageable, frizzy with increased hair fall.
Curly hair in the Middle East does present its own unique set of challenges but doesn’t every climate? Some of the curly hair challenges faced here in the UAE include: hard water mineral build up, humidity, dry air and high heat exposure from the sun. Where you have such challenges and the wrong curly hair products have been selected as part of your regimen, your curls will fall victim to endless frizz, dryness, loss of elasticity - in a nutshell dull and lifeless curls.
As we move through 2025, if feels like summer has arrived earlier and curlies across the GCC are now realizing that frizz free curls isn’y just luck, based on genetics or curly type, it’s about choosing the right products for your environment and climate.
Now, are you ready to master a curl routine that actually works for the regional climate?
Why the GCC Climate Is Tough On Curly Hair Textures?
Experimenting with different curly hair routines in the UAE or Saudi can be fun, however endless searches for products that are suited to your curls and climate can be exhausting, especially when trying to achieve what appears to be an moving target of frizz free curls particularly in major cities such as Dubai or mastering frizz controlled curly hair in Riyadh. In the major Middle Eastern Cities such as Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Doha and Riyadh, curly hair is often up against:
Hard Water Build Up
Hard Water, unfortunately results in mineral build up on the hair. Overtime this build up reduces your curl’s ability to absorb moisture. We unpack this further in our blog post dedicated to hard water solutions, the good news? With the right knowledge and tools this can be a fairly straightforward fix for your curls.
Humidity & Frizz
High humidity, the greatest challenge curlies in the region face, the fight against frizz and loss of definition.
Sun & Air Conditioning
Over exposure to the sun, causes heat damage and weakens the hair shaft, leaving your curls damaged leading to increased porosity as the bond in the shaft are damaged, therefore more gaps. More gaps = more escape routes for moisture.
Air conditioning, the evil necessity you can’t live without but will leave your curls dehydrated, dry and brittle.
Consider Emerson your on the go curl coach for advising on the best curly hair products in UAE, Saudi and beyond. As well as how to care for curly hair in the Middle East and achieve your best curls which are frizz resistant and humidity proof; we’ve tried, tested and evaluated cult favourites loved by ‘000s of curls worldwide.
Our 2025 Emerson-approved picks reflect what’s truly working for curls in extreme summer heat and humidity.
Tried & Tested: Top Curly Hair Products in UAE and Saudi
1. Uncle Funky’s Daughter Curly Magic
As the name says it all, it’s quite literally curl magic in a bottle, this styling gel has well over 3,000 + 5 star reviews and has become a cult favourite for so many reasons, it creates beautiful, elongated curls, making it a go to styler for all curl patterns.
We couldn’t exclude this from the list of top products for curly hair even if we wanted to - it’s one of the best curl defining gels in the market.
The aloe base makes it perfect for detangling and defining whilst defending curls from humidity through use of hydrolyzed wheat protein in the formula - this helps provide balance and fill in the gaps in your curls, the less gaps in the hair shaft, the better your moisture retention meaning your curls are less likely to draw moisture from the hair. Frizz is a natural by-product of a moisture - protein imbalance.
Perfect for:
· Frizz free, defined curls
· Elongating
· Protect against moisture loss with a moisture - protein balanced formula.
Why It’s an Emerson Top Pick:
This made our list as it’s one of the few gels in the market that offers both elongation and curl definition in a moisture - protein balanced formula - a key requirement for humidity proof curl routines. We recommend using this as a base gel in the summer, layered with Innersense I Create Hold for the extra holding power and frizz protection. This powerful duo will leave you with beautifully defined curls without the weight all summer long!
2. Kinky-Curly Knot Today
A lightweight protein free leave in and detangling, this is a holy grail for curlies across the globe.
Why? It’s humectant rich but in a balanced botanical formula so you curls can enjoy easily absorbed hydration and conditioning needed in high humidity and dry climates without the frizz. A perfect match for the UAE and Saudi climate.
Marshmallow root in the formula works to completely smooth the hair cuticle, minimising escape routes for moisture, keeping your curls hydrated for longer. Hydrated curls don’t seek out moisture which helps to keep frizz at bay in high humidity environments such as UAE and Saudi. Frizz free curls in and out of summer is the goal. If you’re looking for frizz control products for curls, this is one of them.
Perfect for:
· Climates that see high humidity and dry heat
· Low and high porosity curls
· Detangling
· Low protein curly routines
Why It’s an Emerson Pick:
It’s tried, tested and true over and over again. This leave in is a phenomenal multi purpose product - leave in, detangler and primer all in one. It’s deeply hydrating with a clean and minimalist formula, so your curls are not left craving moisture whilst also smoothing the hair cuticle to minimise external moisture from entering the hair shaft. It offers your curls a two pronged approach to fighting frizz.
3. Camille Rose Curl Love
If your curls need instant deep hydration and a dense moisture boost, this moisture milk will leave parched curls from dry heat or overexposure to air conditioning silky soft, defined and protected from everyday environmental aggressors. With a creamy rich rice milk base mixed with rich plant-based oils, your curls will enjoy moisture that lasts with the added protection from. Where other rich leave ins or curl creams leave your curls weighed down, the layered formulation allows for easy and quick and absorption in the hair strands to avoid your curls feeling weighed down or coated in build-up.
If you want moisture with beautiful curl definition, pair this with Camille Rose Curl Maker.
Perfect for:
· Dry, brittle curls
· High porosity curls
· Softness and manageability
Why it’s an Emerson pick:
From the dry heat to hard water and air conditioning, curly hair in the Middle East is bound to experience bouts of dryness and this moisture milk provides an indulgent dose of moisture that is so easily absorbed in the hair shaft. Think rich moisture without the heaviness. The cherry on top is this moisturiser has the ability to define your curls. If you have a little one, they can also enjoy the added nourishment while taking in the natural sweet scent.
4. Innersense Hydrating Cream Hairbath
Indulgently rich sulfate free cleanser for dry and brittle curls.
If you want to experience luxurious curl love in a cleanser form, this is your go to for a premium salon worthy indulgent cleanser, balanced for high performance to gently cleanse your strands from root to tip with an ultra-rich creamy sulfate free cleanse base to remove dirt and replenish hydration in dry thirsty strands. Incorporate this weekly into your curly hair routine and watch your moisture retention improve as the moisture-protein balanced formula allows hydration and moisture into your curls whilst cleanse and the protein rich ingredients reinforce the integrity of the hair shaft.
Perfect for:
· Dry, brittle curls
· Weekly cleansing
· Softness and manageability
Why it’s an Emerson pick:
This moisture - protein balanced cleanser should be a staple in any curly hair routine. It provides your curls with just what it needs to set the right foundation, a clean slate that has been infused with both hydration and moisture powered by certified organic clean ingredients. It delivers a rich salon like cleansing experience whether in the salon or at home. With a highly concentrated cleansing formula a little goes a long well.
5. Ecoslay Banana Cream Deep Conditioner
A conditioning treat for curls in need of replenishment and nourishment, with a beautifully thick consistency this conditioning treatment does what a lot of other thick textured conditioners cannot, quickly absorb in the hair shaft, don’t let the consistency fool you, even finer curls can benefit from this. The value of this conditioner lies in it’s ability to condition in 3 ways, it could serve as your primer for styling – leave in conditioner, a quick instant conditioner which allows you to rinse out after 3-5 mins or a real deep conditioning treat, use it the way it best works for your curls and your lifestyle. It is certainly one to have in your curly hair routine if you suffer from dry, frizzy or damaged curls.
Perfect for:
· Intense conditioning
· Softness and manageability
· Detangling and Priming
Why it’s an Emerson pick:
This conditioning treatment provides the pick me up parch strands need to thrive in Middle East. It’s a trusted favourite for its richness, spreadability and conditioning power. Don’t let the thick texture fool you, the rich, thick texture penetrates the hair shaft leaving you with dreamy, soft, moisturised curls. With consistent use you’ll find your curls retain moisture for longer.
Let Emerson Guide Your Curly Hair Journey
If you’re ready to transform your curls and allow them to thrive, we’re here to help and empower you along the way. Join thousands of curlies from UAE to Saudi, Qatar and Kuwait who we’ve empowered with the relevant curl education and product selection that actually works for their curls. Let us help you take the guesswork out of healthy, climate conscious curl care.
Need help choosing your products?
Explore our curated collection of Summer 2025 must haves - heat protecting, frizz fighting, humidity proof curly hair essentials for thriving curls in the Middle East here.
Reach out to us at:
Email: info@emersonhairandbeauty.com
Instagram: @emerson.beauty
Whatsapp: Click to chat via our webstore
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/best-kids-curly-hair-products-hairstyles

August 12, 2025•10 min read ★
School run chaos - Behind schedule, rushing through breakfast and still need your little one's curls to look presentable all in good time? We get it.
If you're searching for the best curly hair products and quick, hassle free curly hairstyles that actually last the school day, be it an action filled day or a special picture day, this guide provides you with 5 easy curly hairstyles that are fun, stylish and fit for purpose, as well as gentle hydrating products every curly haired kid needs in their routine.
Curly hair generally requires a little more care and attention, as it’s more fragile than straighter textures but the task of curly hair styling for kids doesn’t have to be stressful or time consuming.
With the right prep, a few simple styles, curls can be out of the door in 5 mins or less.
Jump straight to Watch our full Style in Session: YouTube curly hair styling tutorials for kids.
Alternatively you can follow our step by step guide on how to achieve these 5 easy curly hairstyles:
- The Double Puff ( Puff & flow)
- Two strand twist (Twist & Shout)
- Half Up, Half Down Knot Bun (Top Twirl)
- Braided Half Up For Curly Hair (Braided Halo)
- Wash 'n' go (Bounce 'n' Go)
Curly Hair Routine for Kids: Why Curls Need A Different Approach in the UAE
Curly hair in the middle east needs to be studied to be understood, but we have done it so you don’t have to. Hard water, pool water, detangling, frizz, heat and humidity, some of the key factors to consider when caring for kids with curly hair in the UAE. The list may seem endless but we have you covered to ensure your little one’s curls stay healthy, manageable and beautifully theirs.
But before any routine can be truly effective one factor matters most – hair porosity, this determines how your child’s curl behave – how it absorbs and holds moisture. When you understand it, a simple yet effective routine can be designed that works with their curls and not against them.
Generally, children are born with low to medium porosity curls, however age, genetics, hormones and hair practices impact how that evolves. Low to medium porosity curls mean they need light, hydrating products not oil or butter heavy products.
How to Test Your Child's Curl Porosity at Home
A quick test and the way to observe porosity – spritz water on a section of your child's curls – if the water beads are still present after a minute or two that’s an indicator your child has low porosity, if water beads evaporate after about 60 secs that points to medium porosity and if water beads aren’t present that leans more to high porosity.
Here are key clues you can use at home to determine porosity:
Porosity Clue Table
Still unsure of your child's hair porosity? Take our quick curl quiz here.
The best curly hair routines for kids should include hydration, hydration starts from cleansing through to conditioning using gentle curly hair products for kids - this is the baseline for beautiful curly hair styling.
Pro Tip: Always start styling on damp curls, wet curls also works, but younger children are more prone to feeling cold with soaking wet hair. If you're styling straight from a wash day routine, gently blot dry using a microfibre cloth, section the hair and apply a small coin sized amount of leave in conditioner to prime and prepare for styling.
5 Easy Curly Hairstyles for Kids
1. Double Puff ( Puff & flow)
The puff is a classic curly hairstyle for kids, also know as a pineapple for its shape and structure. It's a go to for school mornings when time is short, but you still want your child's curls to look neat and defined.
Step by Step:
- Start on damp, detangled curls.
- Create a clear parting down the middle of the hair.
- Gather the hair on the left side and smooth edges front and back into place. Secure the puff with a silk or satin scrunchie.
- Repeat on the right side.
 
- While the hair is still damp, glaze a small amount of curl defining gel over the exposed curls and rake through for elongation and hold.
 
- Allow hair to air dry naturally while you finish your morning routine.
2. Two strand twist (Twist & Shout)
The twist equivalent of the popular French braids. This protective curly hairstyle for kids is low manipulation, secure and perfect for keeping curls in place all day.
Ideal for action-packed school days with sports activities such as gymnastics, swimming or horseback riding. Yet stylish enough for picture day.
Whilst simple, it can be accessorised with beautiful clips, beads or colourful bands for that extra touch.
Step by step:
- Start with damp curls that are well detangled and moisturised.
- Part the hair down the middle using a comb or your fingers.
- Working on a section at a time, apply a curl cream to the palms of your hands and rub to activate.
- Smooth the curl cream from root to tip. This will smoothen the hair surface, reduce frizz and make twisting that bit easier.
- Begin the twist, start by taking two strands from the front of the hair line and begin twisting, feeding in hair gradually as you move towards the nape - similar to how you would a French braid.
- Once you get to the nape, secure the twist with a silk or satin scrunchie and finger coil the ends of the hair.
- Repeat on the other side
Pro Tip: Use a kid friendly curl defining cream that will add nourishment, soften and define. Our expert pick: Camille Rose Sweet Puddin' Buttercream
3. Half Up, Half Down Knot Bun (Top Twirl)
This style maintains a sleek polished look that gathers the top section into a neat, tension free top bun while leaving the rest of the curls loose, free and beautifully defined.
Perfect for full, packed school days with extra curricular activities, themed dress up events, play dates and birthday parties. This curly kids’ hairstyle stays secure and stylish from drop off to dinner time, even in the Middle East heat.
Step by Step:
- Start by spritzing a curl refresher across the length of the hair to rehydrate, detangle and prepare for styling.
- Create two sections by parting the hair from ear to ear using your fingers or comb for more precision. Clip the top section in place.
- Take a coin sized amount of curl cream, emulsify and work it through the length of the curls in the lower section, then apply a similar size amount of styling gel and rake it through and gently cup the curls at the bottom, scrunching upwards for more curl definition.
- For the top section, create a ponytail by gathering the hair at the crown. Apply a touch of curl cream to sides to smoothen and enhance the sleek look.
- To create the knot, gently twist the pony and wrap it around the base and secure with a silk or satin scrunchie.
- Smooth any flyaways with a squeeze of curl styling gel on the fingertips.
- Add accessories (optional) add floral clips or bows for a themed events, parties or just to add that sparkle during the school week.
4. Braided Half Up For Curly Hair (Braided Halo)
The style that blends the best of both worlds, a sleek part up do with two braids through the middle with beautiful loose, defined curls flowing in the lower section. It keeps curls neatly out of the face, while still letting those princess perfect locks shine.
An easy curly hairstyle for kids that’s picture day ready and just as perfect for busy school mornings.
Step by step:
- Start with damp curls that are well detangled and moisturised using a leave in conditioner and curl cream to soften and lightly define.
- Create the top section using a comb or your fingers, creating a parting from ear to ear and clip the bottom section away.
- Divide the top section into two parts - this will be your braiding sections.
- Beginning at the hairline, create a simple three strand braid, adding sections of hair as you work towards the crown.
- Repeat on the other side.
 
- Style the lower curls, use a refresher to reactivate the curl cream and rake through for definition. For extra hold, add a small about styling gel, glaze over curls from root to tip.
- Add accessories (optional) add floral clips or hairpins for a picture ready finish.
5. Wash 'n' go (Bounce 'n' Go)
The style for when they want to wear their curls loud and proud. Beautifully defined curls and coils, sculpted for softness and naturally bounce.
A go to curly hairstyle for kids, and just as loved by adults, it celebrates textured hair in its purest form while keeping the routine fuss free and simple.
Step by step:
- After cleansing with a gentle, sulfate free shampoo or cowash.
- Apply a kids leave in conditioner generously from the root to tip, while the hair is still wet, avoiding the scalp.
- Section by section, apply your preferred styler such as a curl cream, smooth along the length of the hair and then rake through the hair with fingertips.
- Lock it in for added definition and a seal hold with a styling gel. Apply the styling gel to the palms of your hands and glaze over each section with praying hands method and then gently cup and scrunch upwards to encourage further curl clumping and definition.
- Air dry or light diffuse on low heat.
- Gently break the curl cast with a pea-sized amount of hair oil or butter, cupping each section and scrunching upward to soften the hold.
Pro Tip: For quick school mornings, prepare this curly hairstyle the night before and let it air dry. In the morning, refresh with a light mist of curl refresher to break the cast and revive definition. 
Making School Mornings Easier, One Curly Hairstyle at a Time
From picture day perfection to action-ready hold, these easy curly hairstyle for kids prove that preparing for the school day can be tear and hassle free.
With the right prep, a little moisturising base, a few easy go to styles in your toolkit, your child's curls can look their best everyday without having to spend more than 5 to 7 minutes.
Your next steps:
Bookmark this guide, so you have it readily available when you need it.
Share your child's favourite curly hairstyle and tag @emerson.beauty on Instagram, so we can feature them.
Explore our range of the best kids curly products to keep these styles soft, defined and lasting all day. This includes our expertly curated Mummy & Me Kit which includes all you and your little one needs for healthy, moisturised and defined curls.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/best-mousse-for-curly-hair-dubai

September 04, 2024•6 min read ★
With so many curly hair styler options, it can be tricky trying to determine what stylers will best enhance your curls and achieve the desired goal. Hair mousse and hair foams for curly hair have and continue to gain popularity in Dubai and the wider UAE. This summer alone we saw record breaking sales for Camille Rose Spiked Honey Mousse and TréLuxe Soothe & Restore Curl Defining Mousse. Before we explore why these mousses in particular have gained so much popularity, it’s important to strip it back and understand what a hair mousse is, what curl types best benefit from this type of styler and how best to use a mousse.
What is a hair mousse?
In the simplest terms, a hair mousse is a styling agent that can be used on all hair textures. For curly hair in particular, hair mousse is used to enhance the natural curl pattern by increasing curl definition and volume which is a measure of how bouncy your curls are right from the root and enhance natural shine.
 Interestingly, the word mousse actually originates from French term meaning foam. So with many articles online aiming to offer an explicit explanation as to the difference between a mousse and a foam based on the terms origin it’s clear the terms can be used interchangeably and they often are.
 While hair mousse has regained popularity due to its ability to define and volumise curly hair, it’s not new to the hair market, as hair mousse first gained popularity in the 80’s and now considered the most popular styling product after a hairspray. Looking at an article published by the New York Times in January 1985, the term “ Mousse Maina” was coined as there was a rampant increase in the use of mousse in the haircare industry, as hairstylists began advertising this revolutionary and versatile styling product to their customers
 If we look back at the hairstyling market in 80’s, we see that big hair was in. The more the volume, the better! That was the look many high profile celebrities were going for. We see many celebrities reinvent those same looks today. We must highlight this big hair trend seen in the ‘80s wasn’t unique to women alone. Images from the 1980’s show us that mullets were very much a trend back then for males.
Hair mousse and its rising popularity in the curly hair world
In the last 18 months, we have seen numerous indie curly hair brands come to market with a mousse or foam. Why? There was a noticeable gap in the market for a styling product that delivers definition, volume and in some cases hold in a lightweight format that all curl types can benefit from, particularly fine curly hair types.
 
 Fine curl types often struggle to achieve maximum curl definition without being weighed down, the weight starts at the roots, sometimes resulting in flat curls at the top and clumped curls from mid to the ends of the hair shaft.
 
 You may wonder what causes curls to be weighed down? There are many causes including excessive use of styling products, improper cleansing and use of products not suited to your hair porosity, if your hair is unable to absorb products well, it sits on the hair shaft. For the best styling results, regardless of the chosen styling product, we always recommend applying on freshly washed hair.
 
 Social media often makes styling curly hair appear to be a game of trial and error in order to understand what styling products are best suited your curl type (including texture, density and porosity), but the reality is some what different. Once you understand your hair’s porosity and density, it’s easy to navigate the curly hair product market.
Recommended application for best results with a curly hair mousse
- 
Consider applying on wet hair, not soaking wet if you are going for maximum definition and volume with a wash and go. Incorporate the root clipping method to ensure volume starts right from the roots, particularly if you have fine curls. 
- 
For soft, lightweight curls. Use a mousse as your sole styler, using the raking method or praying hands followed by a detangling or curl defining brush. 
- 
For stronger hold and more elongated curls. Use a mousse as your base styler and layer this with a defining strong hold gel. 
- 
For braid out, twist outs or bantu knots styles, apply to damp hair and use the mousse to set your style in place. Be sure to fluff your roots once your style is dry and the twists or braids has been unravelled. 
- 
For tighter curl patterns that need a little more encouragement with curl clump formation, we recommend smoothing the mousse onto the hair shaft, start from close to the root but avoiding the scalp and take a few passes with a detangling brush to encourage more definition. 
Finding the right mousse for curly hair in Dubai
When choosing a mousse for curly hair textures in Dubai, it is crucial you consider the middle eastern climate and use that in determining what key features you need in a mousse. We know that a mousse generally speaking is a lightweight styler, however many mousses contain drying alcohols. These types of mousse should be avoided at all cost for curly hair types, which is naturally more prone to dryness.
Key features to look for include:
- 
Frizz control during seasons of high humidity, this will avoid your hair pulling in excess moisture from the air. Your primary form of moisture should be from your conditioning treatment and leave in conditioner. Frizz control comes via ingredients such as VP/VA Copolymer. Cosmeticsinfo.org refers to this ingredients ability to help hold the style of your hair in place by limiting the hair’s ability to absorb moisture. Absorbing moisture from the air is a by product of many humectants which offer hydrating and moisturising properties for curly hair. 
- 
A curl defining emollient such as Aloe Vera Juice, Honey or Flaxseed Extract which offers the best of both worlds – moisture, curl definition and elongation. 
- 
Polysorbate 20 – a binding ingredient which reduces ingredients separating in the product and increases the spreadability and absorption in the hair shaft without excessive build up. 
These features can be found in our best selling mousse - Treluxe Soothe & Restore Curl Defining Mousse and Camille Rose Spiked Honey Mousse.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/best-products-for-curls-uae

August 19, 2024•8 min read ★
Maintaining your curls in the UAE and wider Middle East region can be a challenge if you do not understand your hair’s core needs, specifically curly hair textures which are naturally more prone to dryness.
Ensuring you are using products and techniques suited to your hair type and climate is crucial to seeing long term results on healthy hair journey.
To make your things easier for you, our team of experts here at Emerson have compiled a list of Top 10 Recommended Products for Curly Hair in the Middle East.
Before we dive into the list of recommended products, let’s first assess what your curls need to thrive particularly in the Gulf region.
Understanding your curls core need
At the most basic level, curly hair thrives on moisture. You may be thinking why is this noteworthy as one would believe all hair types need moisture. While this is true, it’s even more true for curly hair as you may have noted from our earlier blog post - we re-emphasise this time and time again, due to the structural features of curly hair moisture and hydration from the scalp doesn’t often make its way down to the top of the hair strands, so how do you tackle this? Through your moisturising technique, including your conditioning treatments, leave in, stylers and refreshers.
In the Middle East the need for added moisture is even more true given the dry heat that’s typically experienced particularly in the UAE (outside of the summer months). Dry heat essentially dries out the hair due to higher temperatures, leading to the need for regular moisture infusions.
In the summers, on the other hand, we often witness a shift from dry heat to heightened humidity. Despite general consensus, humid environments, in small doses, can provide some benefits to curly hair. Just think about it, when you apply deep conditioning treatments, we advise our clients to use some form of heat for greater penetration in the hair shaft, some people have access to steamers others a heat cap to allow for mobility during the treatment process. What does the steaming/adding heat do in practice, it allows for greater absorption of moisture by trapping the water vapour released by steam.
Of course, a deep conditioner should be done at most once a week to avoid excessive swelling of the hydrogen bonds in the hair shaft. Humidity can be viewed through the same lens particularly for low porosity which struggles to absorb moisture in the first instance, this is where humectants in conditioning products becomes useful for attracting the moisture in the air (thanks to humidity) to the hair shaft.
To be clear, we are not advising that your curls should have excessive amounts of exposure to humid climates, however we are highlighting that humidity can have some benefits in low doses. When exposure to humid environments for extended periods of time in the UAE, what tends to happen is excessive absorption of moisture leading to raised cuticles that causes frizz and a break down of hydrogen bonds in the hair.
Our product recommendations offer a balance of products for you to enjoy the benefit of humidity but also protect against the dreaded side effect of frizz! We offer a more in depth guide on caring for your curls during the summer months here.
Striking the balance: Your formula for healthy curls in hot climates
We’ve highlighted importance of understanding and addressing your curls core need’s, now lets look at how you strike a healthy balance in order to address your curls core need in the most effective way while accounting for hotter climates.
Effective moisture absorption and retention is made possible when your hair is in its strongest state – this is absolutely crucial in hotter climates, as it's easy for your curls to lie at either extreme - moisture overload from excess humidity exposure OR extremely dry due to high heat and let’s not forget symptoms of hard water typically found in the Gulf region.
The winning formula = Clean slate + Moisture and Balanced Products
When your curls are free from product build up including mineral build up – a byproduct of hard water, plus the hair shaft is reinforced with protein, moisture is much more easily absorbed and retained.
With this in mind, here are your Top 10 Best Curly Hair Products in the UAE and GCC.
A must have for providing your curls with that much needed reset, we advise this to be used at least one a monthly. The purifying ingredients such as Charocal, Kaolin Clay and White Vingear are a powerful combination which can draw out the smallest microparticles and deposits left on the hair shaft and deliver thoroughly cleansed, balanced and radiant curls.
Your go to cleanser, if you find you need to wash your curls more than once a week, this light no studs co wash will gently remove residue whilst maintaining a healthy level of moisture in your strands. A must have if you are a frequent gym or beach goer that needs to cleanse your scalp and strands at least twice a week.
3. Camille Rose Algae Renew Conditioning Mask
If your curls become increasingly dry due to excess heat exposure, this is the intensive conditioning treatment you need. Not only does this smell so good, it provides the added benefit of a vitamin infusion loaded with antioxidants to strengthen and protect from environmental aggressors such as heat and UV rays.
4. Curls Blueberry Bliss Reparative Mask
The perfect moisture-protein balanced conditioner to include in your hair regimen which repairs the protein bonds in the hair shaft, and fills in any gaps found in the hair shaft naturally through Hydrolyzed Protein which helps to limit the escape routes for moisture.
5. Camille Rose Honey Dew Refresher
On those days when your curls need a boost of moisture, this is your go to product! Infused with the beautiful humectant honey which will assist with drawing moisture from the air but don’t panic, frizz will be under control as this refresher contains Polyquaternium-37 which offers superior frizz control. You will also enjoy the added benefit of strengthening ingredients - Rice Water Extract and Nettle.
This leave in/detangler is a holy grail for many for a reason. With minimal ingredients to enable a key focus on delivering a high degree of hydration and moisture through Mango Fruit Extract, Slippery Elm and Marshmallow Root which results in a smooth hair cuticle, enhanced curl definition in lightweight form.
7. Treluxe Curl Supreme 4-in-1 Hydrating Creme
This is a fantastic option for infusing a balance of moisture and protein into your hair strands. Not only will this curl cream leave your strands with superior moisture, you're rewarded with soft and supple hold with this one.
8. Jessicurl Spiralicous Styling Gel
This is the humidity resistance curl gel that you never knew you needed! With this styling gel, you need not worry about your styling results lasting beyond Day 2 or 3, this gel offers superior hold and unmatched frizz control, formulated with Polyquaternium 69 as one of the Top 3 ingredients.
9. Mielle Pomegranate and Honey Leave In Conditioner
There is nothing like this leave in on the market. This leave in contains a powerful blend of dense moisture from Murumuru seed butter, honey and white leaf extract in a lovely lightweight consistency. Offering immense slip for detangling whilst enveloping every curl and coil with hydration and moisture. Even for fine curls, a little goes a long way.
10. Cachos High Porosity Hair Elixir
This is your moisture sealant, protectant and prepoo all in one and the formulation doesn’t disappoint! A unique blend of Brazilian oils that penetrate the hair shaft, please note not all oils are penetrating! This has been included in our recommended product list as it has been proven to fill in the gaps found in porous hair types, aid moisture retention and provide protection from environmental aggressors such as sunlight.
We hope that the above recommended list serves as a useful guide when selecting your curly hair product must haves for hot climates such as the UAE. If you want a 1:1 Consultation to learn more about your hair's needs and build a personalised haircare regimen, book an appointment with one of our curly hair experts here today! It's never too late to get started.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/best-products-for-curly-hair-2025

December 09, 2024•11 min read ★
With so many products on the market, it’s often difficult to find out what products are worth the hype and what are not. As we have often mentioned in our posts, the quality of your products are equally as important as the healthy hair habits you adopt, without these two factors combined, you will struggle to reap the benefits of the best of curly hair products.
In this post we will get right into products that are certain worth the hype and deliver on marketing claims. We’ve evaluated, tested and reviewed client feedback on these products to ensure we provide you with an unbiased view. Please note all the products listed are in no way sponsored by the brands/manufacturers.
This shampoo is extraordinary for chronically dry curly hair types. If your curls have suffered from any form of chemical damage, over exposed to the sun or heat or quite simply is craving intense hydration and moisture. This is your starting point! Hydration and moisture shouldn’t solely be the focus of your conditioning efforts but starts right from the cleansing stage of wash day. For a detailed guide on selecting the right cleanser, check out our post titled Curl Care: Understanding the importance of cleansing your curls correctly
This has been a curly girl holy grail for many, many years and we completely understand why. This is one of the few leave in conditioners and detanglers on the market which is suitable for both fine and thick hair types. Believe us, it’s true! The formulation of this leave in is very simple yet effective, it utilises lightweight botanical ingredients such as Marshmallow Root and Slippery Elm to hydrate the driest of curls and even more so effective for low porosity hair types which struggle to absorb moisture. Your curls can enjoy the added benefit of light definition from these botanical ingredients.
Another leave in conditioner makes the list, though this one is somewhat different to Kinky Curly Knot Today. Ecoslay Rice Pudding Leave in Conditioner boasts of delivering phenomenal hydration to your curls using similar botanical ingredients to Knot Today with use of Marshmallow Root and Slippery Elm and perfectly blends this with strengthening ingredients so your curls can withstand external aggressors by filling in any gaps found in the hair shaft. What you are left with is hydrated, moisturised and stronger curls.
This creamy and luxurious leave in conditioner is one of one, in a league of its own when it comes to targeting chronically dry strands. Specifically formulated to provide intense moisture binding properties to strands that are in dire need of concentrated moisture through use of premium emollients and humectants such as Hyaluronic Acid, Ximenia Seed oil and Peptides.
This styler has recently topped our best sellers list and all for good reasons, this conditioning lightweight styler offers moisture, deep definition, shine and flexible hold making it perfect for wash and go stylers, twist outs, braid outs or even rod sets. The true beauty lies in the power of the ingredients which is a blend of strengthening and moisturising agents to provide your curls with the balance it needs to thrive. Honey is often celebrated for its humectant properties but we know that is often a double-edged sword specifically in regions which experience extremely high humidity such as the Middle East in that humectants can contribute to extreme frizz. The formulation of this product includes the use of PVP and Polysorbate-20 which aids style fixation and supports frizz control in curly hair types.
This product has well over 3,000+ positive reviews and the secret sauce is in its ability to prime and stimulate curl formation right from the root down to the tip. Many curlies use this gel as their staple base gel and layer it with a strong hold gel for long lasting hold. If you are looking to bring out deep and sleek definition in even the tightest of curls or coils, this is your product!
A silky styling serum that envelopes your curls with lightweight hydration and moisture and yet still offers light definition, hold and shine. Would you believe this serum doesn’t contain any oils, making it the perfect style for loose and fine waves or curls.
This styling gel needs no introduction as it’s renowned for its hold ability in the curly hair community for many years. This gel is one of the few gels on the market which provide hold strong enough to contend with Middle Eastern humidity in the summer months. This is all thanks to a key ingredient which appears second on the ingredient list - Polyquaternium-69. We talk about the importance of this ingredient in our blog post Summer Curl Care: Experts tips on how to make curls last in the summer months.
Curls & Potions Chebe & Rice Water Growth Stimulating Treatment is an underrated water-based growth serum. The curly hair market is currently flooded with hair growth oils, however few brands offer water-based serums which deliver results. This stimulating treatment includes the best of Ayurvedic herbs and essential oils alongside Fermented Rice Water to deliver follicle reviving formula that works and can be used as often as daily without causing irritation or product build up on the scalp.
A concentrated deep treatment for curls in need of repair and strengthening. If you have previously suffered from hair loss or stagnant growth, we can guarantee with consistent use of this mask in your wash day regimen, your curls will do a complete 360. Soultanicals is a tried and tested brand for using the best of the natures produce to deliver real, healthy, long-term results for your curls.
A cream styler of dreams that provides hydration, definition heat protection and frizz control. The inclusion of organic oils and butter rich in fatty acids and vitamins deeply penetrate the hair shaft which allows for increased moisture retention and repair. Honey increases the slip factor allowing the creme to glide on the bends and kinks of each and every curl. The added bonus is this creme offers beautiful soft definition that can last at least 3 days without an additional strong hold product.
This cowash has been a constant repurchase for many of our clients, what sets this cowash apart is its protein-moisture balance in the product formulation, making it the perfect cleanser to use in between wash days for fine or chemically treated hair types who benefit from more frequent protein infusion in the hair shaft.
Protein rich products are of tremendous benefit to all hair types but more so curly hair textures due to how prone curly hair is to breakage and moisture loss as result of its structure. Protein Defence Treatment is a pure and concentrated protein treatment that doesn’t leave your curls hard and stiff like many protein rich treatments on the market but leaves your curls strengthened, restores elasticity and builds back what your hair was naturally designed to have. If you want breakage resistant curls this is the treatment for you!
Tangle Teezer’s Ultimate Detangler is a curly hair must have! Curly hair has to be treated with extra care as the natural bends and kinks in the hair structure can easily dry out if moisture and hydration levels are not maintained causing added tangles and matting. This becomes an impossible task for a standard hair brush or comb which will only cause snagging and lead to unnecessary breakage. The teeth structure on the Ultimate Detangler aids detangling even the smallest and tightest knots and kinks cutting back detangling time significantly. This brush can also double as a styling brush!
A holy grail moisture-protein replenishing deep conditioner. There are very few conditioners that have the ability to leave a little tingly sensation on the scalp without directly being applied to the scalp. This deep conditioner gets all the sense going and works like a charm - when your curls are parched, stringy, limp, lack love and volume, reach for this and watch your curls transform!
A clarifying shampoo is a must for all curly hair textures, particularly if you utilise styling products or your curls are exposed to pool water or hard water. A clarifying shampoo allows a complete reset and rebalance of your scalp and hair’s pH, stripping all product build up, dead skin and debris. Inahsi Naturals Soothing Mint Sulfate Free Clarifying Shampoo is one we continually recommend as it is effective, sulfate free and gentle on your curls, the soothing mint leaves a delicate tingling sensation on the scalp aiding blood stimulation whilst alleviating scalp conditions such as dandruff. If you need help selecting the right type of cleanser based on your hair’s needs, read our cleanser guide here.
TGIN Honey Miracle Hair Mask is a deep conditioning treatment that doesn’t disappoint and delivers on its claims of delivering miraculous results. If your curls are tired, parched, dull and just need to feel alive again, this is a conditioner you need in your curly hair product kit. The key ingredients such as Raw Honey and Olive and Jojoba oil provide supreme penetrating moisture and a vitamin boost to restore life and elasticity to your curls. When your curls are in need of a miracle this is the conditioning treatment you need!
Let’s get into Ecoslay Jello Shot a styling gel that can moisturise even the tightest of curls, coils and kinks. This thick, like strawberry styling gel is the perfect gel for curls that struggle or need extra help to define or hold styles in place, it can be used for wash n go’s, rod sets, up dos and smoothing edges and baby hairs. The secret sauce to curl definition and elongating ingredients, okra extract and aloe vera juice.
This mask had to make the list due to its ability to completely transform dull, lifeless curls. If you feel like giving up on your curls, your curls aren’t responding to products the way they used to, this is a product you should reach for. Packaged with detoxifying ingredients such as Kaolin Clay, Charcoal and White Vinegar. The combination of these primary ingredients reset, rebalance and infuse moisture back into your curls. Including this in your regimen at least once a month can significantly improve the overall health of your hair, reduce frizz and build up on the scalp and hair
A must have for dry and sensitive scalps, if you’re experiencing scalp irritation or frequent scalp conditions such as dandruff or psoriasis this is a cleanser that can alleviate such issues. It’s been scientifically researched and developed to combine active ingredient Zinc with Olive and Tea Tree oils to deliver anti fungal and anti inflammatory cleansing power in a gentle formulation.
Here you have it, 20 Best Curly Hair Products of 2025! These products serve as a baseline for maintaining healthy, flourishing curls each offering an infusion of moisture, restoring balance, adding shine or bringing the best out of your natural curl texture by defining and elongating your curls for the most beautiful curly hairstyles.
Determining the most suitable products for your curl type and porosity should be guided by the most prominent ingredients used in the product formulation. Please refer to our blog post on Curl Therapy: Natural Solutions for Diagnosing and Treating Your Hair Concerns
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/buy-curly-hair-products-uae

December 10, 2025•4 min read ★
Why Emerson Hair & Beauty is the #1 Destination for Curly Hair
Finding curly hair products that actually work in the UAE and broader GCC has become somewhat challenging. The Middle eastern heat, humidity and hard water make it increasingly important to find curl care that can deliver lasting results without leaving curls frizzy, limp, dry and undefined. With mainstream retailers primarily targeting straighter hair textures which have different needs to textured hair types.
That's why thousand of women and girls in Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Riyadh and Doha are turning to Emerson Hair & Beauty - The Middle East's First Curl Lifestyle Destination and widely considered the best place to shop curly hair products in the UAE.
1. Curated Products That Perform in the Middle East Climate
Unlike generalist beauty retailers, Emerson only carries brands and products that are proven and tested to address the needs of curly hair in the region - product formulas are reviewed to ensure they deliver real performance with active, clean and naturally derived ingredients. Brands include:
- Innersense
- TreLuxe
- Uncle Funky's Daughter
- Bounce Curl
- Jessicurl
- Camille Rose
- As I Am
- Kinky Curly
- The Doux
- Curls
These products are tested on real curls in the Middle East, making the curation far more reliable than general beauty platforms.
2. A Destination Built Only For Curly Hair
Emerson isn't a broad beauty store, it has a niche, specialised focus. This ensures:
- Better product recommendations
- Relevant hair education
- Effective routine mapping
- Lasting styling results
It's the most curl centered end to end shopping experience in the region.
Emerson understands that education is key to achieving results that last. Education coupled with high performance products is crucial for thriving, healthy curls.
3. Curated Offering, Not Crowded
While a wide selection is generally more favoured, Emerson aims to avoid customers feeling overwhelmed with 000's of brands and curates only the best leading brands and products for curly hair. Emerson favours quality over quantity, intentionally, to eliminate guesswork, the trail and error cycle to ultimately save customers time and money by only offering what works along with education that allows customers to get the most out of their products.
Read what existing customers have to say about Emerson on Trustpilot.
4. Expert Curl Education You Can Trust
Through its education content, guides and product description, Emerson helps you understand:
- Porosity
- Moisture balance
- Humidity Styling
- Dryness and Frizz Prevention
- Curl type discovery
- Wash day routines
- Scalp health
- Expert product recommendations
This expert guidance helps customers build routines that are effective, tailored and unique to their hair's needs.
5. Fast Delivery Across the UAE & GCC
Emerson delivers across Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Sharjah, Al Ain and the wider GCC, making it easy to access high performance curly hair products wherever you are in the region. With Same Day and Next Day delivery options within UAE and delivery within 1-3 business days across the GCC.
6. Curly Hair Lifestyle Destination with a Dedicated Mission
Emerson Hair & Beauty is more than just a store. It's a curl focused lifestyle destination built to change how curly hair care is seen, cared for and celebrated in the Middle East
Through purpose driven campaigns, curated seasonal edits, immersive events and experiences this combined showcases what real representation looks like. Emerson is dedicated to redefining the beauty of curls, not as something that needs to be fixed or tamed, but as something worthy of care, confidence and real visibility.
From editorial short series like In Her Mirror, immersive events like the Mummy & Me Curl Experiences to solution driven seasonal edits such as the Summer Curl Edit, Emerson combines product performance with purpose, that extends beyond retail and into identity.
To conclude, if you're looking for curly hair products in the UAE and wider GCC that genuinely work in this climate, Emerson Hair & Beauty is the leading destination to shop. With expertly curated brands, fast delivery and a mission to showcase and elevate the beauty of curls. Emerson has become the trusted choice for women across the Middle East.
Shop your curl essentials at Emersonhairandbeauty.com
FAQs
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/can-we-gift-someone-with-curly-hair-products

January 22, 2025•8 min read ★
TABLE OF CONTENTS
- Why is Curly Hair so Attractive?
- The Perfect Gift for Curly Hair
 Gift Ideas for Curly Hair Queens
 Must-Have Curly Hair Accessories
 How to Choose Curly Hair Products
- Embracing Beautiful, Natural Curls
- FAQs
- Conclusion
WHY IS CURLY HAIR SO ATTRACTIVE?
Curly hair is often associated with beauty. Over the years, many people have debated whether or not it is attractive. Natural curly hair in women is attractive because it’s associated with beauty and femininity. The curly hair look and the way those curls frame a woman’s face are simply beautiful. 
Furthermore, natural curly hair is also a sign of youth, which is a factor that people find attractive. Curly hair is unpredictable and spontaneous; its independence is beautiful. 
THE PERFECT GIFT FOR CURLY HAIR
Can you gift someone with natural curly hair with products that work best for their natural curls? Definitely. A curly hair gift is something that would delight someone who has naturally curly hair. Nevertheless, choosing the perfect gift involves understanding the unique needs of the hair. There are bundle sets, curly hair products, curly hair conditioners, and many others to choose from. The best choice is always the one that goes beyond the conventional. The curly hair care gift reflects an understanding of the style of the person you’re gifting it. Furthermore, it also depends on the desire to celebrate the fabulous curls!
Gift Ideas for Curly Hair Queens
Natural curls are beautiful and unique. Those curls deserve specialized attention and care. When choosing gifts for the curly-haired, here are some thoughtful ideas.
- 
Oils and TreatmentsOils and treatments for curly hair make curls strong and beautiful and protect it from external agents or hair dryer heat. There is a wide range of high-quality hair oils and treatments to choose from. We have a wide array of oils designed to strengthen, repair, and infuse moisture.
 Moreover, oils add shine, seal moisture, and eliminate frizz. The best curly hair oils are Jojoba Oil and Argan oil.
 
- 
DiffuserThe diffuser is an attachment used with a blow dryer. In general, people with wavy hair don’t like to blow dry their hair without a diffuser as it can cause a breakup of the curl clumps and cause frizz. With diffusers, curly-haired people can blow dry their hair while keeping the waves intact. A bigger diffuser is more popular because it allows you to dry more hair at one time.
 
- 
Curly Hair MousseHair mousse is a versatile product that adds texture, and volume and holds your curls without weighing it down. Typically, it’s lighter in consistency than cream and gel, which makes it ideal for those natural-looking waves and curls. Mousse works by creating an airy, light foam that expands as you dispense it from the can.
 The foam coats each hair strand, providing volume from the roots and boosting the natural texture of the curls. The hair mousse is a favorite for those with thin or fine hair because it adds fullness and body without the sticky residue.
 
- 
ConditionersConditioners play a big role in the management of curly hair. Aside from hydrating and moisturizing the beautiful locks, they’re also often used as shampoo replacements to cleanse hair. The best conditioner for curly hair should have ingredients such as Jojoba oil, Vitamin E, Aloe Vera, Keratin, and Shea Butter.
 
- 
Shampoo and CleanserThere is a wide range of unique curly hair shampoos and cleansers to choose from. Some of the popular ones include sulfate-free shampoos particularly formulated to cleanse curly hair without removing the natural oils. When buying shampoos and cleansers for curly hair, pay attention to the ingredients.
 The best ingredients for curly hair shampoos and cleansers include argan oil, glycerine, aloe vera, coconut oil, shea butter, jojoba oil, citric acid, and water. One of the simple ways to keep hair and scalp healthy and clean is to add a clarifying shampoo to the hair regimen at least once a month.
 
Must-Have Curly Hair Accessories
You can never go wrong with gifting accessories for someone with curly hair. Whether they’re decorative, functional, or a little of both, hair accessories are expressive ways to celebrate the different types of curly hair. Check out some of the best accessories for curly hair.
- 
Puffy HeadbandsThese are making a serious comeback. A favorite in the ‘90s, this classic accessory brings any hairstyle to the next level. This kind of headband is croissant-shaped and comes in various designs and fabrics, making it easy to find a match for any look.
 
- 
Curly ClampsThe struggle is real when pulling curly, thick hair into a ponytail. There are, fortunately, hair clamps designed to work on different types of curls. The curly hair clamp is essentially a round banana clip that comes in different sizes and is made to create puffs and ponytails seamlessly.
- 
Printed Silk ScarvesA silk scarf creates a stunning look when paired with every hairstyle. You can incorporate a silk hair scarf into different styles, such as a braided ponytail, for instance. Moreover, you can also fold it into a thin bandana and wear it the same way as a headband. It will bring out the best of your curls.
 
- 
Stretchy Head WrapsThere are just so many things to love bout stretch head wraps. They come in different colors and patterns and could be used to complete a glam hairstyle. They can also be worn to protect hair at night while sleeping.
 
- 
Embellished Hair ClipsConsider new hair clips to enhance natural curls. Embellished hair lips have become a popular hair accessory. From pearls to bedazzled marble and gems, these clips are great for adding beauty to already beautiful curls.
 
How to Choose Curly Hair Products
Whether bundle sets, curly hair shampoo, curly hair cleansers, or curly hair conditioner, choosing the curly hair care gift could be confusing. The multitude of options could easily overwhelm you as you try to find the best gift for someone with curly hair. Curls could range from tight coils to loose waves. Here are some tips to consider before buying the right gift for someone special with naturally beautiful curly hair.
- 
IngredientsWhen choosing curly hair products, such as curly hair cleansers, the list of ingredients is crucial. Steer clear from products with parabens, sulfates, and silicones. All these can strip hair of its natural oils and can cause build-up. Consider water-based ingredients, such as honey, aloe vera, and glycerin that provide hydration and promote healthy curls.
- 
Scalp ConsiderationA healthy scalp means healthy hair. Choose products that address scalp concerns without compromising the hair’s moisture balance. Scalp sensitivity can benefit from products with tea tree or peppermint oils. For over-oil production, a co-wash that doesn’t strip the natural oils is best.
 
Embracing Beautiful, Natural Curls
Natural, curly hair is a thing of beauty. You can confidently embrace your natural curls and make them flourish naturally to boost your look. Many people with naturally curly hair are embracing their natural textures and the rise of the curly hair trend is gaining momentum. Love your natural hair texture by following these tips.
- 
Make a Simple RoutinePamper natural curls with good hair practices, such as creating a simple routine. Establishing a routine is the key to making your curls, waves, and curls look and feel their best.
- 
Condition Curls with LoveWhatever your haircare routine may be, a nourishing conditioner is essential. The right conditioner can boost the appearance and health of natural curls. It will leave hair looking its best and feel moisturized.
 
- 
Love those CurlsThe biggest confidence is to love and embrace your natural curls. You are blessed with it, providing you with the confidence to feel amazing and express yourself. Remember: natural curls are beautiful.
 
FAQs
1) Is a gift card great for a friend with curly hair?
Gift cards are the best you can give to someone special with curly hair.
2) Are there other hairstyles for curly hair aside from the down with a side part?
You can style curly hair on a ponytail, side ponytail, or top of the head. You can also style it with a headband or scarf to bring out the best look for you. 
3) What should I do with an itchy scalp?
This requires more cleansing. There are curly hair cleansers that remove dirt, oil, and build-up effectively, leaving hair and scalp looking and feeling clean. 
4) Are silk pillowcases and scarves best for someone with curly hair?
Silk or satin pillowcases and scarves are an easy win to gift someone with curly hair.
5) What are curly girl products?
These products are specifically formulated for curly hair needs. These are gentler with fewer chemicals and offer moisturizing properties. 
CONCLUSION
The holiday season is the perfect time to gift curly-haired loved ones with products that cater to their unique hair care needs. The seemingly endless options are available anytime, anywhere. Your gift should reflect their hair styling preferences and texture to have a winning present that shows how much you care. 
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/cgm-products-in-uae

August 07, 2024•8 min read ★
In exploring CGM products in the UAE, it’s important to first establish what it is. “CGM” it’s possible you’ve heard of this acronym but also possible you haven’t, yet unconsciously follow it.
What is CGM?
CGM stands for Curly Gurl Method, a method developed and introduced by Lorraine Massey to the curly hair community in 2001. The philosophy behind this approach is the use of natural hair ingredients for textured hair – this includes: wavy hair, curly hair, coily hair, kinky hair textures. By natural ingredients this method discourages use of curly hair products contain ingredients such as sulphates, silicones and parabens. The belief is that these chemicals are considered extremely damaging if you are looking to retain and maximise your natural curl pattern, a belief we completely agree with. Other principles include replacing a regular shampoo with a more moisturising cleanser also known as co-wash or conditioner washing, avoiding the use of too many styling tools such as combs or brushes and many more.
In the last four years, we’ve witnessed a CGM UAE community grow and continue to generate awareness of the method and help others develop an understanding of what CGM products should contain.
CGM product market revolution
Whilst Lorraine first coined the phrase which took the textured hair community by storm, the basic principles of this method have been followed by many prior. As more knowledge has become available through product research, testing and development, experts with decades long industry experience have been encouraging the use of more nourishing ingredients in curly haircare and actively promoted for the move away from cheap mineral oils, conditioners and emollients found in traditional haircare products.
An expert at the forefront of the textured haircare revolution is Dr Ali Syed, through years of industry experience and a background in Chemistry, he founded Avlon - parent company of Affirm and Keracare brands and more recently As I Am a brand backed by science to the deliver all the nourishing benefits that curly hair needs to thrive. He has over 20 years of experience in extensive product research, testing and development. Dr Ali through As I Am has brought ph balanced, moisturising, curl enhancing products such as cleansers, conditioners, treatments, refreshers, moisturisers and stylers to market since 2010.
CGM products market today
Fast forward to 2024, we have seen numerous independent curly hair brands come to market with a range of products largely out of the US, followed by the UK and Europe and more recently Africa and India. It’s so incredible to see and we are so honoured to be part of the movement and wider community.
Mainstream Curly Hair Brands
Curly hair product availability in the UAE
Curly hair products only so many years ago didn’t appear to exist in the Middle East. Upon moving to Dubai, UAE in 2019, there were limited product ranges available - the primary curly hair brands that were easily accessible were Auntie Jackie’s, Cantu and Shea Moisture. This was one of the key reasons Emerson was birthed - to provide accessibility and affordability to the best of curly hair products from around the globe – targeting different curl patterns, hair concerns and porosities.
Looking ahead: The future of CGM products
Looking ahead we expect that the level of accessibility to CGM products to increase as well as customer’s knowledge base as they develop a better understanding of their hair type in order to nurture it the right way.
Reflecting on where we started to where we are today, now stocking over 25 brands, 300 products and counting, we are amazed by the progress seen not solely our progress but the wider progress seen in the UAE with more and more people embracing their natural curls, coils and kinks.
Over the next 12-18 months, we expect our product offering to increase by 40-50%. This is evidence of a growing, innovative and bright future for CGM products in the UAE. We imagine a world, not too long from now, where browsing and purchasing curly hair products in the UAE and GCC becomes as easy as shopping for items of clothing on ASOS or Namshi, for example.
With CGM products and haircare in general, there is no one-size fits all approach when it comes to brand and product selection. Despite what advertising often tells us, it’s important to understand the unique selling point (USP) and target market of each brand. This is where the various curly hair brands come in with their unique offering, targeting a specific hair concern, hair type or unique hair texture.
We, at Emerson, understand that product selection is often the most challenging part, as such we highly encourage sampling different products, this is one of the many reasons we include samples with every order (subject to availability) and offer mini or travel size products - a cheaper way to determine if a product is suitable for you in terms of ingredients, performance, consistency and scent. Alternatively, if you want expert advice on what to select based on your hair’s characteristics, our team of curly hair experts are on hand to assist you.
The UAE is home to a number of natural hair brands such as Kozma Curl which offer natural hair care products, free of sulfates and silicones for naturally curly hair. We’ve also come across a range of other natural local brands online, though not curly hair focused, such as Khadi Organique and RUH Natural. When scanning through their formulations and observing these brands philosophies, we have identified that they are in fact suitable for curly hair, though not marketed in this manner, but in view of the product ingredient lists can be classified as CGM friendly or CGM approved - particularly the cleansers and conditioners. 
On the other hand, curly hair styling products is an area which we expect to gain more traction from local brands over the next couple of years. At present, there are very few local brands offering suitable styling products such as curl creams, gels or foams/mousse.
A missed market opportunity - CGM products for kids
Another segment of the CGM product market that is very new and limited is product ranges uniquely curated and formulated for kids with curly hair. As a fellow mother of children with highly textured hair, I want them to develop a love for their curl pattern and embrace it wholeheartedly, as it's a unique feature of their natural beauty. Many children grow up wanting to alter their natural texture as a result of not knowing how to care for their curly hair or often hearing their curly hair labelled as "unruly", "unmanageable" and "frizzy".
As we become more informed, it's crucial parents provide their children with all the exposure possible to the beauty of their curl pattern - being very intentional about showing them that curly and textured hair is beautiful, involving them in the wash day process, from selecting products that they like the smell of or packaging that most appeals to them is a great starting point.
At present, Camille Rose Naturals Kids, As I Am’s line – Born Curly and Curly Ellie are the only brands with products for curly kids, we expect this to become a key focus area in the CGM products market over the coming years and look forward to better representation for children.
Though a great proportion of children are born with naturally textured hair but due to lack of exposure, as they grow older end up with chemically processed hair or severe heat damage from constant straightening.
Our commitment to you
In summary, we are extremely excited about the future of the CGM products market in the UAE and GCC. We remain more committed now than ever to providing access to the best of curly hair products globally, so your curls can thrive! Whatever your curl pattern, young or old, it's never too late to start your curly hair journey!
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/curl-cleansing-importance

October 07, 2024•6 min read ★
There is a vast amount of information centred around how to wash, frequency of washing and what cleanser to use when washing curly hair. This blog post aims to take the difficult out of your decision making when it comes to your cleansing routine for your curls. You may have heard of the 3 C’s – Clarifying, Cleansing and Co washing, put simply these three concepts all fall under the umbrella of washing your curls.
How often should you wash your curls and what to use when washing your curls, may seem like million-dollar questions; however, the reality is really quite simple. Our aim is to make caring for your curls simple. Your curls should be washed as often as you deem necessary, subject to your lifestyle, climate and general haircare routine. Let us help you determine what frequency that looks like for your curls.
Curl cleansing basics
It’s important we touch upon this, as without a basic understanding all the expert tips we provide will not be intuitive to apply. As mentioned in previous blog posts, curly hair thrives in environments where hydration and moisture are present. In the context of washing your curls, frequent cleansing and conditioning helps improve the hair’s moisture absorption and retention capabilities, by promoting the binding of water to the hair shaft. As curly hair is more prone to dryness, environments that promote the retention of moisture can only be advantageous in maintaining healthy curls. This is what makes cleansing the first and most vital step in a healthy hair regimen. It’s the first point of proper hydration for your curls. This is contrary to popular belief! For many years, mass media advertising made it appear as though water dries out textured hair and it should be avoided too frequently, a completely false narrative behind the popularity of protective styling. In this day and age in 2024, if this narrative was still pushed, we would quite simply have an issue and possibly wouldn’t see the increase in individuals embracing their curly hair.
Remember: Squeaky clean hair isn’t always the goal, clean, hydrated and moisturised curls are.
Understanding the different cleansers available for curly hair
The curly hair market is loaded with various different cleansers which claim to do the same thing in slightly different ways and of course, it is of no surprise as the curly haircare market continues to grow. According to Allied Market Research, the shampoo market was valued at $3.4bn in 2023, and is forecasted to reach $58.3bn by 2034, registering a CAGR of 5.1% from 2023 to 2034.
Types of cleansers
Cleansers are formulated to lift hair cuticle and remove dirt, build up, dead skin and excess oil from the scalp and hair shaft. The hair cuticle is lifted through the slightly higher pH in the formulation when compared with a traditional conditioner.
Cleansers are typically made up of 40-60% of water. Though some brands of cleansers have a highly concentrated formulas which incorporate less than 40% water and require you to activate the cleanser by emulsifying the cleanser with water. The key types of cleansers for curly hair types include:
- Moisturising
- Clarifying or Detoxing
- Chelating
Moisturising Cleansers
Curly hair seeks out moisture at every turn, so we find that moisturising shampoos are heavily present in the market. However, a shampoo loaded with subpar oils is not an indication of its moisturising properties. Moisturising cleansers are designed to cleanse the hair but not strip the little natural moisture curly hair is able to retain. An example of a good moisturising shampoo is Innersense Hydrating Cream Hairbath, this brand has a range of highly concentrated products so a little goes a long way. This shampoo is a luxuriously hydrating and moisturising shampoo that leaves the hair and scalp clean but not dry, as it infuses the hair shaft with what it desires most - moisture. We want to further emphasise that not dry feeling, this is not to say your curls should feel coated. They should feel hydrated yet soft and supple.
Clarifying Cleansers
Clarifying or detoxing cleansers are also known as “stripping cleansers”, as they can often leave your curls feeling stripped of all moisture. Whilst the first point of call for cleansing curly hair types is a gentle moisturising shampoo, there is a need for a clarifying of detoxing cleanser on at least a monthly basis. A clarifying or detoxing cleanser is formulated to cleanse at a deep level and to a greater degree than your average cleanser by lifting heavy product build up and debris on the scalp and hair fiber. These types of cleansers provide your scalp and curls with a blank sheet - a clean slate. A clear indication your curls are in need of a clarifying cleanser is when you find your usual products are not performing as they used to, your curls seem limp and lack definition and movement, an increased amount of hair breakage despite no changes to your diet or lifestyle or simply just feel coated but yet not moisturised.
Chelating Cleansers
Similar to clarifying cleansers, clarifying cleansers have the ability to cleanse at a deeper level than a traditional moisturising cleanser. What sets this cleanser apart from others is its ability to bind to, cleanse and lift hard water residue, mineral build up of calcium and magnesium is a natural by product of hard water, commonly seen in the Middle East. If you live in a region with hard water we highly recommend you use a chelating shampoo at least monthly. Here is how to determine whether you live in an area with hard water. If you experience any of the below, there’s a good chance you have hard water.
- 
Excessive tangling after every wash despite efforts to ensure your curls are detangled before washing 
- 
Your hair is chronically dry despite your efforts to wash and condition regularly. 
- 
Your lathering shampoo takes a while to lather 
- 
Excessive breakage that you cannot seem to address despite best efforts with healthy hair habits, treatments and overall haircare 
- 
If you have colour treated hair, you may find your colour fades easily and turns brass and dull quite rapidly. 
To wrap up today’s post we go back to the question many curlies ask when starting out on their healthy hair journey, how often should I wash my curls? Your curls should be washed on average every 7-10 days, however if your lifestyle demands frequent washes do not be afraid to do so. For example, if you work out more than 3-4 times a week or swim a few times a week, we recommend use of a low poo such as a conditioning wash – co wash alongside a regular moisturising shampoo – alternating between the two within a 7 day window can only be beneficial in removing light build up, maintaining a healthy scalp environment and imparting hydration and moisture back into your strands.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/curl-detox-guide

October 15, 2025•8 min read ★
In the curly and natural hair space, there's key focus on moisture and styling but not enough emphasis placed on detox treatments. We've seen it countless times, where a customer invests in a new product expecting an instant miracle only for their curls to end up feeling greasy, weighed down and simply unresponsive. The curly hair products that once worked brilliantly, no longer deliver results. In most cases, it's unlikely to be a product issue, your curls aren't necessarily asking for more, they are telling you they are in need of a reset.
A reset treatment by way of a detox is one of the most underrated steps in a curly and textured hair care. Yet its importance cannot be overstated. We recommend a reset at least once every 3-4 weeks, to strip away product and mineral build up, reduce scalp inflammation, restore elasticity, improve styling results, and boost moisture absorption.
At Emerson, we call a curl detox an unvalued gem - a simple but powerful step that keeps curls balanced, healthy and thriving in Dubai, UAE and wider Middle East.
Healthy Curls & pH Balance: An Overview
In its normal state, hair has a pH range of 4.5-5.5, this is the standard for balanced, healthy hair that has relative shine and lustre. When the hair is coated it starts to move outside of this range, and you'll find shine and lustre is lost. The beauty of a curl detox treatment is the balance it contains. Before we go on, let's break this down, an effective curl detox treatment typically includes:
- A cleansing agent such as a Clay (pH 8-9): The most common types include bentonite, kaolin or rhassoul. These provide cuticle lifting properties to lift dirt, debris and build up that lies beneath the surface.
- A highly acidic ingredient such as Apple Cider Vinegar (pH 3-4): To restore elasticity, reduce porosity by sealing the cuticle and enhancing shine.
Why Balance is Crucial for Curly Hair
As hair naturally has an acidic state, a treatment that restores this balance periodically is crucial for healthy hair. When the hair's pH becomes too high or low its more vulnerable to damage, as it significantly affects the protein structure inside the hair's cortex. When the protein structure in the hair is weakened, hair becomes limp, dull and lifeless, which is only more pronounced with curly hair textures.
If we now layer some of the challenges known in the Middle East region such as hard water. Hard water not only coats the hair with mineral build up but also makes curls more alkaline, leaning to a pH of 8 or more. This leads to increased porosity as the cuticle swells and lifts more than normal. An accumulation of stubborn minerals has a drying impact on curly hair, why? Strands become clogged which inevitably limits moisture absorption. Without a regular reset, curly hair can end up in a deadly cycle of dehydration, dryness and fragility.
For a further deep dive on this, read our related post on How to beat hard water damage.
When Should I Detox My Curls? 7 Signs to Look For
You should detox your curls when they start to feel heavy, dull or unresponsive - these are some of the most obvious signs that your curls need a complete reset, not another moisturiser, leave in or conditioner for curly hair. While heaviness signals possible product build up, mineral build up isn't immediately obvious to the human eye, this tends to manifest on curly hair through limited moisture absorption, dryness despite the feeling of a waxy coated layer on your strands. Listed below are 7 signs to look for, to help you determine whether your curls are due a complete reset and detoxing treatment.
1. Your Curls are Limp and Lifeless
When curls lose their natural bounce and the ability to spring back when tugged on, or your curl pattern seems more loose - this is a sign of lost hair elasticity. Where curls aren't able to breathe and are clogged with layers of oils, creams, butters, styling products or mineral residue that has left a coat, they will naturally feel more weighed down. This is a key clue that a detox is overdue.
2. Your Curls are Chronically Dry
When this occurs the default response is to look for more hydrating products each time, but digging beneath the surface you'll find additional hydration simply cannot be absorbed. Yes it's true that curly hair textures are naturally more prone to dryness but at times this can be self inflicted, as the pathway for hydration is blocked.
Build up is an interesting concept as typically it is viewed negatively as the required hydration and nourishment is unable to penetrate, however for damaged parts of the hair shaft that coating mimics a lipid layer to protect the hair, albeit temporarily.
3. Wash Day Results Don't Last
Your curls look good on Day 1 and maybe Day 2, but your styling results deteriorate by Day 3. Despite having a good routine, technique and products, your wash day results are short lived. Your curls are no longer hydrated or defined and simply look flat. This is a common challenge we come across in the Middle East region.
4. Consistent Frizz
A little frizz isn't the enemy, however consistent frizz that just seems unmanageable is a signal that your hair maybe unbalanced and require a reset. Hair generally has a pH level of 4.5 -5.5, to acidic or too alkaline your curls will start to signal something is off, that being the balance it needs to thrive. When curls start to frizz excessively, it's a sign your curls have entered into the too alkaline territory, pH over 6, from this point onwards the hair's cuticle begins to lift and porosity increases. This is why shampoos are alkaline in nature to lift the cuticle to cleanse dirt and hydrate, where conditioners are on the opposite side of the scale sealing the cuticle to restore balance. The beauty of a hair and scalp detox is in its perfectly balanced formulation to ensure it clarifies and conditions.
5. Your Scalp Feels Itchy or Flaky
One of the key myths we often have to bust with our e consultation clients is that beautiful curls that are healthy and defined are purely determined by the choice of curl enhancing stylers used. Healthy, vibrant curls start at the root, the foundation being a clean and healthy scalp environment. When the scalp environment is itchy or flakes develop, this is a sign of inflammation and/or build up. A detox is essential for removing excess sebum and bacteria that can evolve into more pronounced scalp conditions. Incorporating a detox at least once every 3-4 weeks will not only allow your strands a fresh slate but your scalp benefits too. Remember your scalp is skin, the same way we dedicate time to exfoliating and purifying the skin on the face, the same process is required for the scalp, though not to the same frequency.
6. Curly Hair Products That Use To Work, No Longer Deliver Results
Your favourite curl cream or styling gel that used to define your curls, no longer delivers the same definition or volume. When this occurs, it's easy to think the product itself is no longer useable or has somehow gone bad. If you find you're applying alot more product in hopes to get those same wash day results you used to enjoy, your curls are simply craving a restart. The fix is often a simple one, reach for a clarifying shampoo for curly hair such as Kinky Curly Come Clean or Innersense Hair Detox Mask - your scalp and curls will feel much lighter and you'll see performance of that styler you once loved come back and you'll enjoy the results you're used to.
6. Your Curls Feel Rough and Brittle
We've addressed how your curls look and perform, now to draw attention to how they feel. Texture tells you everything. If your curls feel coarse or rough, lack some smoothness, these are some of the early signs of mechanical damage that only a detox treatment can help reset, repair and restore due to the purifying and conditioning benefits a balanced detoxifying treatment offers. Ever notice how after completing a juice detox of 2-3 days, your skin appears healthier and more radiant, the same is true for a targeted detox treatment.
How to Detox Your Curls
Detoxing your scalp and your curls doesn't have to be complicated, while DIY remedies are available, we do not often recommend it without expert guidance, due to the precise formulation required to ensure your curls are not left further unbalanced or extremely brittle. It is possible to achieve salon like results at home with expert product formulations such as Innersense Hair Detox Mask or Curls & Potions Supreme Curl Detox - a favourite amongst our clients, known to improve curl elasticity leaving your curls with more spring and bounce and overall healthy hair. To detox effectively we recommend the following:
- Applying on damp hair from root to tip and then massage into your scalp.
- Cover with a plastic cap for 30-45 mins and then rinse thoroughly.
- Once rinsed, follow up with a moisturising conditioner to seal the hair cuticle.
| Shop Emerson's Curl Detox Edit |
An expert curated selection to lift build up, rebalance moisture and elasticity and restore your curls natural bounce and shine.
FAQs
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/curl-lifestyle-destination-middle-east

December 24, 2025•4 min read ★
What It Actually Means
A curl lifestyle destination is more than a place to buy products. It’s a specialist ecosystem built around the real, lived experience of curly and textured hair. One has product curation, education, representation and experience into a single, intentional journey.
Emerson Hair & Beauty created this term as nothing else accurately describes what Emerson is building, It exists to redefine how curly, coily and textured hair types are cared for and celebrated in the Middle East, not as a niche category but as the standard.
Why Curly Hair Needs Its Own Destination
For decades, curly hair has been underserved by mainstream beauty retailers. Products are often stocked without real context. Education is either fragmented or no existent, resulting in an endless cycle of trial and error. Representation is limited or trend driven. The responsibility of figuring it all out lies entirely on the customer.
A curl lifestyle destination such as Emerson exists to change that.
It recognises that textured hair requires:
- Performance led product curation
- Ingredient and formulation standards
- Ongoing and accessible education
- Cultural and identity affirmation and representation
- Continuity from childhood through adulthood
Rather than overwhelming customers with endless options, a curl lifestyle destination exists to remove the noise and replace the guesswork with clarity, trust and reliability.
What Makes a Curl Lifestyle Destination Different
Unlike traditional beauty retailers or e commerce platforms, Emerson as a curl lifestyle destination is built on four core pillars:
1. Intentional Curation
Products are not chosen to maximise assortment but they are selected intentionally to deliver results. Each formula is reviewed, tested and approved for curation based on performance, formulation integrity and real work use on textured hair.
2. Education that Empowers
Education is not an afterthought.
A curl lifestyle destination teaches customers how to understand their hair texture, from porosity to moisture balance to styling techniques and routine building, so products work holistically with the hair and not against it.
Without the relevant education, caring for curly hair in the Middle East can quickly become a chore riddled with challenges shaped by humidity, heat, hard water and ongoing misalignment with your hair’s real needs.
3. Editorial Representation
Curls are not treated as a trend. Editorial storytelling, visual language and brand narratives such as In Her Mirror reflect textured hair as confident, intentional and worthy of taking center stage.
4. Experience That Build Confidence
Beyond content and commerce, a curl lifestyle destination is integrated offline, in the real world and creates real world experiences - moments where learning, identity and care intersect.
From intimate educational events to generational curl experiences, these moments reinforce that curly and textured hair is not something to be "managed", its something to understand and celebrate.
Emerson Hair & Beauty as a Curl Lifestyle Destination
Emerson Hair & Beauty is the Middle East's first curl lifestyle destination, built specifically for women and families navigating textured hair in this region.
Rather than acting as a general beauty platform, Emerson integrates:
- Curated, performance led curl care
- Educational content anchored on real needs
- Editorial narratives that centers identity
- Experience-led activations such as the Mummy and Me Curl Experience
This approach supports curls at every stage from early childhood through to adulthood, offering continuity, confidence and clarity in a beauty landscape where textured hair has often been overlooked.
Beyond Products: A Dedicated Mission
At its core, a curl lifestyle destination is driven by purpose.
Emerson is dedicated to redefining the beauty standard for curls - not as something to fix, manage, tame or control but as something worthy of care and visibility.
Through seasonal edits, educational initiatives, immersive experiences, and editorial projects such as In Her Mirror, Emerson bridges the gap between product performance and identity, creating a space where curls are understood holistically.
Why This Matters for Customers
Choosing a curl lifestyle destination means:
- Fewer mistakes, less trial and error
- Better results with fewer products
- Increased confidence in routine building
- Hair care that feels considered, not overwhelming
- Representation that resonates at every life stage
Its not about following trends, its about building a healthy long term relationship with your hair texture.
A New Standard For Curl Care in the Middle East
A curl lifestyle destination exists because textured hair deserves more than shelf space or adhoc mentions in publications because it's "trendy". It deserves:
- Expertise
- Context
- Consistency
- Respect
Emerson Hair & Beauty was created to offer exactly that, redefining how curly hair is seen, cared for and celebrated.
Explore curated curl care, learn through expert led education and discover experiences designed for real curl journeys.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/curl-therapy-in-uae

August 12, 2024•8 min read ★
Curl therapy available in the UAE. 
Therapy, we all need it at some point in our lives and this can take place in many forms but today we discuss a specific kind - Therapy for your curls.
First it’s important to start with a clear definition, in order to fully understand the term “therapy”. According to vocabulary.com Therapy refers to the act of caring for someone, or the method of caring. In this case, we referring to the act of caring for your curls or the method of caring for them.
Our curls go through so much wear and tear, fighting against environmental aggressors, as well as the effects of our day to day lifestyles. We will specifically hone in on curl therapy and healing specifically for damaged curls - derived from exposure to harsh chemicals, heat, hormonal or stress related factors.
How to determine if your curls need to undergo serious therapy?
If you are experiencing any of the below, your strands are most certainly craving some curl therapy.
- 
You find your hair is chronically dry and brittle despite using moisturising products 
- 
You’ve been chemically treating your hair for many years and you’re ready to embrace your natural curls 
- 
Hair loss is a key hair concern, you find you just can’t seem to get a firm grip on excessive amounts of shedding 
- 
You curls don’t seem to grow past a certain length or have remained at the same length for years 
- 
Your hair is limp, doesn’t retain curl definition or just appears excessively stretched - curls are tight at the top and extremely elongated towards the ends it almost looks straight. 
Let’s now delve into our prescription for intensive curl therapy to address this.
For hair types that appear chronically dry and brittle our prescription: Ensure you understand your hair’s porosity. It could be that despite having so called moisturising products, the ingredients your hair requires are not included in the product formulation.
Let’s do a quick deep dive into what hair porosity is. Without going deep into the science behind it, in the simplest terms, porosity refers to your hair's ability to absorb water and moisture. Typical characteristics of someone with low porosity hair - when water is run across the hair shaft, it takes considerable time for it to be absorbed, often at times water beads may appear as the hair seems to repel water. High porosity hair, on the other hand, absorbs water fairly quickly but loses that hydration at a similar speed.
Focus areas based on hair porosity
For low hair porosity - humectants are almost essential for hair that naturally repels water. Place importance on the application of moisturisers and conditioning treatments on wet hair, if you are able to add some heat through a steamer or heat cap, we highly recommend you do so.
For medium to high porosity - penetrating butters or oils are required to fill in the gaps found in the shaft that cause moisture to evaporate quickly. It's equally important you utilise products with cationic ingredients which will smoothen the hair cuticle also reducing the number of escape routes for moisture.
Transitioning from chemically treated hair to your natural curl texture
Moisture, Moisture, Moisture! It is the key to softening the two textures you will encounter as your natural texture pushes through. Consider gradual trims over a big chop if you're not ready to take that big step but be sure to reduce how often your hair is manipulated through styling.
Remember your natural curls are far more prone to dryness due to the unique bends and twists in the hair structure. Be sure to incorporate a refresher into your routine to be used as often as required. When your hair is going through this transitional phase, it’s fair to treat your hair as high porosity - refer to our diagnosis in the earlier section.
Dealing with excessive hair fall and stagnant growth
Hair fall and stagnant hair growth could have a number of root causes but also many effective natural remedies. Outside of checking for any diet or vitamin related deficiencies, we’ll focus on how you can minimise hair fall and maximise growth with the right products and best healthy hair practices.
Firstly, your go to herbs are:
- Amla
- Fenugreek
- Rosemary
- Hibiscus
- Green Tea
To name a few.
The presence of these herbs in your products will increase blood flow - meaning nutrients will be delivered to the scalp at a good pace providing the scalp with the essential nutrients to grow strong hair strands at a follicular level.
Some of these herbs have the natural benefit of being a DHT blocker - a blocker for the hormone responsible for hair loss.
Additional benefits include a revival of dormant hair follicles resulting in increased density, therefore volume. We emphasise and prove this to our hair growth focused clients time and time again. Contrary to popular belief, it is possible to increase the number of strands produced by the number of follicles you are naturally born with!
If this is a hair concern, your curl therapy: Incorporating growth promoting products such as strengthening oils, tea rinses and moisture - protein balanced conditioning treatments into your regimen. Your healthy hair practices should include regular scalp massages, showing the ends of your hair some extra TLC - ensure they are not an after thought, keep them moisturised and seal in the moisture with a light weight oil or serum.
We understand the challenges associated with hair loss and little to no hair growth and have dedicated endless hours researching, testing and curating a range of targeted treatments that deliver REAL results here.
An example of the results we can help you achieve - a client review on one of the key drivers of her hair length retention.
If you are after a holistic hair growth and length retention system, you can shop our range of systems here. For a more bespoke solution, book an E-consultation with our dedicated team of curl experts here.
Struggling with limp curls that lack definition?
This is a clear sign that your hair has lost elasticity. Elasticity refers to your hair’s ability to stretch and spring back to its natural, shrunken state.
Your curl therapy: Start on a fresh slate, focus on repairing your strands and do not be afraid to let go of dead ends where required.
We get it! The term “repair”’ is used too freely in the curly hair community and the wider haircare community, so often that it can become a term with no real meaning. When we refer to repair, we refer to a building back of what the hair was naturally designed to have - protein, through regular protein treatments and adequate protein in your diet.
Did you know that hair is made up of 95% keratin?
Keratin is a fibrous protein made up of amino acids. This is what hair was naturally structured to have. However, due to environmental aggressors and day to day practices, protein naturally erodes in the hair fiber, leading to weaker hair and a loss of elasticity. But there’s good news, through regular treatments, protein can be rebuilt by filling in the gaps in the hair shaft.
Examples of targeted treatments to rebuild protein bonds in the hair fiber.
Mielle Babassu and Mint Deep Conditioning Treatment
Curls Blueberry Bliss Reparative Mask
 
Another powerhouse repair product that gets overlooked is tomato fruit fermented extract, this one may sound unusual but the secret sauce is found in the fermentation. This ingredient boasts of a wealth of benefits to the hair and scalp. Focusing on the benefits for hair, we find that scientifically, it repairs damage as it’s rich in Cysteine and Lycopene. 
Cysteine is an amino acid which helps rebuild keratin in the hair shaft and provides reinforcement to your hair’s natural curl pattern. In simple terms, this means your curls scientific make up is restored leading to improved elasticity which translates into healthy and bouncy curls.
Lycopene is an excellent antioxidant, protecting the hair from environmental damage and boosting overall hair health. Research also suggests that Lycopene can support hair growth and limit hair loss though is natural ability to block DHT, similar to Green Tea.
The result of these two compounds found in an ingredient such as tomato fruit fermented extract = a fortified hair shaft, curl retention, improved hair elasticity and a reduction in hair loss.
You may be thinking, what product could possibly include this ingredient? Well, we are pleased to tell you TréLuxe Reflex Curl Styling Serum does!
In summary, your curls require the same level of attention given to your skincare routine. Through regular observation you can nip any hair concerns in the bud before they arise. If there are any topics we have mentioned that you would like to deep dive, let us know in the comments!
FAQs
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/curls-humidity-middle-east

June 27, 2025•7 min read ★
Curly hair in the Middle East can be dreamy when the conditions are right. In the height of summer, 45 degree plus heat with 90% humidity, your curls barely stand a chance without expert tips and guidance to build a humidity proof, summer curl routine that works.
In high humidity, your curls can go from sleek to frizz puff in a matter of minutes of stepping outdoors. Why?
In climates like Dubai and the wider Middle East , where humidity is experienced almost daily on the peak of summer in Dubai, the cuticle swells in under 8 seconds.. well not literally, but it certainly feels that way.
If you’ve ever felt like I spent an hour on my curly hair wash day routine and my curls were so defined, but the moment I stepped out, my curls fell flat. You’re not imagining it! Extreme heat and humidity are conditions that pose a serious challenge for curls in the Middle East. You’ll be glad to know - it’s not your curls, it’s your products and technique that needs re thinking.
Humidity & Curls: The Science Behind It All
Curls naturally crave hydration and moisture - it’s their lifeline. What water is to the human body is what hydration and moisture is to curls - they need it, they drink it and thrive off it.
However, in extremely hot and humid climates like the Middle East specifically UAE, Saudi, Kuwait and Doha, the air becomes saturated with a higher degree of moisture vapour which can be disruptive for curly hair textures.
Whilst curly hair thrives on moisture, too much of it causes the hair cuticle to swell leading to frizz, too little of it leads to dry, brittle and more prone to heat damage.
It’s not enough to have moisturised curls, it’s about mastering balance - achieved through the right product pairing and layering technique suited to your curl density and porosity.
Managing Porosity in the Gulf: Why Low and High Porosity Curls Respond So Differently to Humidity
Porosity refers to your hair’s ability to firstly absorb and secondly retain moisture. This is not specific to a curl type but refers more to your hair’s cuticle structure. How the cuticle is positioned determines how moisture passes in and out the hair shaft.
Low Porosity and High Humidity: Why Water Sits on the surface and then suffocates
Low porosity curls have a compact, tightly closed cuticles which lie flat on along the hair shaft, making this hair type more resistant to moisture absorption. This curl type tends to repel water and moisture, it’s common to still see water beads on the surface of hair shaft after several minutes post application.
At first glance this may seem like a good thing in hot and humid environments, as the hair cuticle is less likely to swell as such its ability to draw in moisture from the air is limited.
Unfortunately, there is another side, when moisture and product cannot penetrate, they build up on the surface instead leading to moisture overload i.e an imbalance . This can leave curls feeling frizzy, coated and heavy.
High Porosity and High Humidity: Why It Feels Perfectly Moisturised, Until it’s Not
High porosity curls have a raised cuticle allow hydration and moisture to absorb fairly rapidly, whilst that’s great, a raised cuticle also means moisture evaporates just as fast. Here’s why sealing the hair cuticle is crucial for moisture retention.
Let’s add another factor into the mix, extreme humidity means extra moisture that high porosity curls naturally want to drink up, this causes the hair cuticle to swell and contract over and over again, to keep up with what appears to be a non-stop supply of moisture. This repeated expansion of the hair shaft is what is known as hygral fatigue, we explore this in detail in our post titled Wet Curls & Damage - Understanding the Do's and Don'ts
Another way to think of this, imagine having 20kg on each shoulder for hours on end.
It’s not the first lift that wears you down, it’s the constant repetition that weakens the body structure, causing fragility and vulnerability to creep in.
Layering with Intentionality: How to Build Humidity-Proof, Frizz-Free Curls
It’s important to note that humidity isn’t the enemy in your summer curl routine.
The real secret to lasting curl definition? How you layer.
As mentioned earlier in the post, it is possible to build a curl routine that leaves you with frizz free curls post day 2 and 3 in the peak of Dubai heat but there are some key considerations for effective layering.
The same way you wouldn’t step into the desert sun without sunscreen, you shouldn’t allow your curls out in the thick of summer without the right armour. At Emerson, we often say: Curl care should be likened to skin care – intentional, layered and personalised.
Building a summer proof curl routine starts with your base – a thorough hair and scalp cleanse and rich conditioning treatments to prime and prep your strands. From here, every layer matters from your leave in or primer right to your final hold product.
Remember layering isn’t a one size fits all approach. Your hair porosity should guide your approach to your summer curl routine.
For high porosity curls, we’ve highlighted that moisture escapes at every turn due to a raised cuticle. It’s essential to use the right conditioning treatment to repair the gaps in the hair shaft and seal the hair cuticle flat. This will aid moisture retention and avoid your curls pulling it in from the air. Learn more about how conditioning benefits curly hair health here.
Secondly, priming the hair to further smoothen the hair cuticle before going in with your hero curl definer and then layering with a high performance to lock in moisture, set definition and protect against hygral fatigue.
For low porosity curls which have a water repelling nature, less is more when it comes to the concentration of your styling products. A cuticle smoothing detangler that light hydrates, loosens any knots and tangles whilst keeping flyaways at bay is essential.
A leave in conditioner in mist form is a fantastic second layer in your styling routine, the micro droplets absorb more easily into resistance cuticles and activate your curls ready for styling.
Now to styling, use lightweight stylers to define your curls and defend against humidity, reach for stylers formulated with film forming agents that create a protective humidity shield without the build-up. Your 4th layer similar to high porosity curls, make use of a final hold product that sets your shape, giving you longer lasting definition that doesn’t fade by Day 2 or 3.
Introducing the Summer Curl Edit: Dew and Quench for Middle East Heat
The right summer curl ritual doesn’t just hydrate. It should protect, shape and seal your curls against frizz, dryness and hygral fatigue with each step. This is why we created the Summer Curl Edit – two expertly curated routines built for this climate. One for low porosity curls – Dew and one for high porosity – Quench each with four humidity resistance products perfectly layered for a curl thriving summer.
Ready to take the guesswork out of your summer curl routine?
Be the first to explore the Emerson Summer Curl Edit
Shop the Edit. Limited Edition. Only 120 boxes.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/curly-hair-3a-3b-3c

November 15, 2024•12 min read ★
TABLE OF CONTENTS
- Decoding the Language of Curly Hair
- 3A, 3B, and 3C Hair
 Caring for 3A Curl Type
 Caring for 3B Curl Type
 Caring for 3C Curl Type
- Type 4A Curly Hair
- Curly Hair Styles
- FAQs
- Conclusion
DECODING THE WORLD OF CURLY HAIR
The same as a lot of traits, the curliness of the hair is greatly determined by genetics. Nevertheless, other major factors beyond genetics influence the hair’s texture. Whatever the hair type is, whether straight or curly, has two main components, which is the shaft and the follicle. The follicle shape plays a critical role in determining hair texture.
Typically, the follicles of straight hair are round, while hair follicles of curly hair are oval-shaped. Curliness is also affected by the angle at which the hair follicles bore into the scalp. The follicles grow vertically in straight hairs, while curls are caused by curved follicles as they grow.
Curls have been linked to people of African and Middle Eastern ethnicity for centuries. There are several published articles online that question whether curly hair is distinct to ethnicity and to some extent it is. With the passing of time and more interracial relationships, DNA continues to evolve, thus, it may not be possible to trace the ethnicity of curly hair. Nevertheless, curly hair is determined by one’s DNA.
With its unique bounce, texture, and personality, curly hair is an awe-inspiring natural wonder. Nonetheless, great curls also come with great responsibility. Understanding and decoding the language of curly hair is important. There are different types of curly hair and navigating the world of curly hair could feel like decoding a secret code at times. Let us decode curly hair and embrace curls with confidence.
3A, 3B, and 3C Hair
In general, curly hair is classified into three curl types. These are 3A, 3B, and 3C.
Type 3A Curly hair
3A hair is well-defined. The curl ringlets form regularly but are more stretched and longer than curlier types. Hair texture can be fine to medium and will benefit from hair curling products.
Type 3B Curly Hair
In this curly hair type, ringlets are tighter and looser. It has a medium texture and bounce and could seem in need of moisture. A hydrating product could help remove and minimize frizz that may seem to appear daily.
Type 3C Curly Hair
The curls in this type are well-defined and very curly. Moreover, they include tight ringlets. With tightly wound clumps that turn into coils, the 3C hair is bouncy and usually becomes a hot mess. However, this kind of curly hair always fascinates people. The hair may seem to take a long time to grow, mainly because the curls must grow around several times to get the look of length. Good quality hydrating products help to keep the hair looking great and in shape.
Caring for 3A Curl Type
While your 3A curls may feel rough and frizzy sometimes, they can become glossy and full with proper care. The following are tips on how to look after your curls and make them look great.
1. Deep condition your hair regularly.
Hair conditioning is an essential part of any haircare routine but is particularly important for those with curly hair. 3A curly hair struggles with breakage more than straight hair. Nonetheless, conditioning can minimize friction and lower the chance of damage. Deep conditioning once or twice a week moisturizes the hair strands and helps address frizzy broken hair. Consider leave-on conditioners that help keep curls intact longer.
2. Co-Washing
This has become an increasingly popular option for those with curly hair. This process is using a conditioner to wash your chair without shampoo. This could help avoid roughness and excessive frizz for 3A hair. If you do decide to do this, refrain from using products with insoluble silicones because they can cause excessive buildup on the scalp, which is hard to remove.
3. Refrain from Using Heat and Chemicals
Chemical treatments, such as rebonds, relaxers, and perms are meant to change the structure of the hair permanently. This could make the hair easier to manage, but restoring the natural 3A curl definition will be difficult. You may have to wait for the natural curls to grow back.
Heat treatments are less permanent but still, they can make hair feel brittle and dry and could lead to breakage. Avoid using straighteners or curling tongs as much as possible because heat is also linked to hair loss.
4. Avoid Overbrushing
Brushing or combing your hair often or too harshly can lead to hair breakage at the hairline and crown. This is particularly true in curly hair. Minimize brushing and use a detangling solution or a leave-on conditioner to smoothen the hair and remove knots easily.
5. Sleep on Silk Pillowcases
A regular cotton pillowcase can cause friction between the hair and the fabric, damaging the hair shafts. Silk pillowcases are great for curly hair since the fabric can reduce friction, protecting your curls while you sleep.
Caring for 3B Curl Type
Since 3B curls are more tightly coiled, they’re often drier, more prone to frizz, and coarser. While these curls retain their shape when wet or stretched out, curl-defining products can help in creating beautiful, voluminous spirals.
1. Pre-Poo Before Washing
To protect against frizz and dryness, 3B curls require extra moisture. Before you shampoo your hair, coat the curls in a deeply hydrating nourishing hair oil or conditioner. Leave it for up to 30 minutes before you wash and condition it like normal.
2. Frequent Deep Conditioning
Douse your 3B curls with extra moisture at least once a week to prevent frizz and dryness. Natural coconut oils and hair masks are great natural treatments.
3. Shampoo Once or Twice a Week
Washing too often could deplete the natural oils that your 3B curls depend on to stay hydrated and soft. Shampoo once or twice a week using shampoo formulated for curly hair. Use as little as possible to keep hair clean while retaining its natural moisture.
4. Don’t Brush Your Curls
Curls are delicate, and brushing could only lead to frizz. Rather than brushing, try to detangle and gently separate the curls using your fingers or a wide-tooth comb while still wet and heavily conditioned.
5. Do not Heat Style
Blow dryers and other heat tools in general are a big no for curly hair. You can air dry your curls instead of using heat tools and use ample curl-defining creams or a styling mouse to create your look.
Caring for 3C Curl Type
Patience and consistency are essential in improving the shape of your curls and conditioning your hair. Follow these steps to care for your 3C curls:
1. Moisturize
When it comes to hair routines, moisture is paramount. Keep 3C curls super hydrated without using heavy products, which could weigh the curls down. Most with curly hair are advocates of a water spritz with a mixture of coconut oil and aloe vera that lets them top up moisture the whole day. Other oils work best as well, such as black seed oil, jojoba, and marula.
2. Mask or Deep Conditioner
3C curls are thirsty for moisture so rehydrate dry locks with a hair mask or deep conditioner. Moisturizing formulas help restore hydration and at the same time repair damage without weighing hair down.
3. Wash Properly
Using several products on your hair each time you wash could lead to your 3C curls being weighed down unnecessarily. Nonetheless, washing your hair regularly is still important. Use a naturally derived cleanser that will not dry your curls and do it at least two or three times a week.
4. Stay Away from Chemicals
The last thing your 3C curls need is a sulfate-based shampoo that strips your hair of its hydration and natural oils. Sulfate-based products leave your hair looking and feeling dehydrated and more prone to breakage. Use a moisturizing shampoo and conditioner to remove dirt and excess oil without sulfate to make hair soft and healthy.
5. Curl Definition
Apply a curl definition or styling cream to maintain voluminous and bouncy locks. Furthermore, consider applying a hair serum for an injection of moisture. Black seed hair oil elixir helps nourish, strengthen, and encourage hair growth.
Type 4A Curly Hair
C are often categorised as anything from coily to kinky hair textures. The textures tend to be on the tightest end on the curly hair spectrum as the hair structure is formed of numerous bends and kinks. Whilst curly hair’s ability to retain moisture is primary driven by porosity. Highly textured hair often requires more frequent hydration and moisture as with more bends and kinks, hydration and moisture from the scalp has an increased surface area to navigate thus making this texture drastically more prone to dryness, tangles and breakage. It would be safe to consider Type 4 hair as the most delicate of curly types.
Caring for Type 4 Hair
Similar to Type 3C, however it’s necessary to emphasise the importance of patience when detangling this will minimise hair breakage and enable products to glide through the various coils and kinks.
Hydrate, Hydrate, Hydrate - incorporate refresher sprays into your regimen to promote longer moisture cycles. Refreshers are a lightweight spritz form of hydration and moisture making it a go to when short on time and quick way to restore life and revive curly hair styles
CURLY HAIRSTYLES
Hairstyles for a 3A Hair
Great hairstyles help you embrace the uniqueness of your natural curls.
Hairstyles to Try with 3A Hair
- Space Buns. This fun style adds dimension and volume to your curls.
- Side Part Braid. Create a deep side part, and braid a small portion of hair on the other side, and secure it with a pin.
- Free Curls. 3A curls are meant to be free so let it loose, embrace the natural volume and style with your favorite products.
- Low Ponytail. Tie back your curls into a loose, low ponytail for a look that’s effortless. Dress it up by adding a pretty scarf.
Hairstyles for a 3B Hair
Enhance your curls with these favorite hairstyles:
- Claw Clip. Twist your 3B curls into a loose knot and secure using a claw clip. The rage nowadays are hair claw clips.
- Curly Bangs. Switch up the look by cutting some face-framing, and adorable curly bangs.
- Curly Bob. Play up the bouncy volume of your curls with a curly, cute bob.
Hairstyles for a 3C Hair
Styling for this curl type could take time, but the result would be the beautiful ringlets of your dreams, making you the envy of everyone! Check out the top hairstyles for 3C hair.
- Wash and Go. The easiest option. Allow curls to air dry and just add some products to maintain moisture. In the days between your next wash, you could style it with an on-trend, wet look by slicking back hair with a wet look-specific mousse or gel.
- High Bun. The same as a pineapple hairdo but with a little more finesse. High buns can help define your curls.
- Twist Out. This style isn’t too tight, meaning it won’t pull and damage the edges and cuticles. This is a great protective style that boosts curl definition.
FAQs
1) How often do I have to wash my curls?
Keep in mind that your curls and natural oils are best friends. Without natural oils, your hair could get frizzy. Curls after a gym or swim may need a wash, but your priority is to keep hair happy and connected with its natural oils. A two to three-day interval should do the trick.
2) How often should I deep condition my curls?
You can do moisture treatment as much as you like. Two weeks is a good timeline.
3) Why do my curls not get any longer?
Before continuing downwards, tighter curls tend to grow in a full circle. Growing your curly hair will of course happen, it just takes time. All waves and curls grow length.
4) How do I get rid of frizz and get more definition?
Frizz means dehydrated hair. Hydration is paramount in your next hair wash. Add deep conditioning for more tender, loving, care. Moreover, defined curls are all about how you use products. Move your product from the roots to the ends.
5) My lovely curls have become frizzy, can I get them back?
Go for deep hydration and repair to get your curls back and bouncing. Moreover, the more you scrunch up when styling, with every wash, the more curls will return.
6) Is gel good for curls?
Gels are specifically formulated for curly hair and could provide several benefits, such as hold, definition, and shine. Moreover, gels contain moisturizing properties that don’t leave curls dry.
7) Is Vitamin E good for curls?
Vitamin E is not only good for the skin but for overall hair health as well. It’s particularly beneficial for curly hair because it protects from day-to-day environmental elements.
CONCLUSION
From curly to wavy to straight, the diversity of human hair is as varied as the diversity of people. Natural curly hair is fun and appears different each day, which is part of its appeal. Curls are never boring.
Navigating the curly hair world can be a journey with so many twists, turns, and definitions to learn. Nevertheless, you can embrace your curls with confidence and rock your natural look by maintaining and defining your curls. Cheers to the beauty of curly hair!
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/curly-hair-after-moving-uae

January 15, 2026•6 min read ★
Most women notice it within weeks of moving to the UAE or other parts of the Middle East.
Your hair texture feels different. Frizz appears faster. Definition unravels too quickly.
Products that worked perfectly back home, suddenly no longer deliver the same wash day results expected. Almost instinctively, the conclusion is the same - something is wrong with my curls.
The truth is most people never explain this correctly, your hair didn't suddenly change overnight, your curls are in a completely new environment.
Curly Hair in the UAE : Understanding the Climate and Environment
The UAE's climate, water quality and daily temperature shifts created conditions that most curly hair products were not formulated to handle all at once. Once you have a better understanding as to what truly changes when you move here, adjusting your curly hair regimen becomes far less frustrating and far more effective.
The first misconception is that the change is simply from "hot weather". Where in reality it's several different factors at once.
Humidity in the desert - coastal regions impacts curly hair differently. Moisture moves rapidly in and out of the hair fibre, causing the hair cuticle to swell (and contract) many times over. This naturally disrupts product hold and consistency. Indoors, there's a need for continuous air conditioning which strips moisture from the hair and scalp. This daily contrast alone is enough to cause an imbalance.
Water quality also has a role to play. Over time, mineral residue from hard water coats the hair shaft, which is why understanding hard water and curly hair in the UAE is essential for long term curl health.
None of these mean your curls are damaged, they are simply readjusting to a new climate.
Why Curly Hair Products Stop Working in the UAE
Most curly hair products are formulated and tested in temperate climates.
In the UAE, those same products behave differently. Humectants can over-attract moisture and create frizz. Heavy conditioners can soften hair without truly hydrating it. Definition achieved with your favourite curly hair styling products unravels faster because moisture evaporation happens much more quickly in the heat.
Soft hair doesn't always equate to hydrated hair, especially in climates where moisture enters and exits the hair rapidly, this is an example of the importance building a routine based on porosity over curl pattern.
When products appear to stop "working", the natural instinct is to add more. However in reality, the routine needs adjustment and not excess product.
4 Common Mistakes in Curly Hair Routines in the UAE
- 
Over conditioning to fight frizz - In humid climates, too much conditioning leads to limpness and structure collapse, a term called "hygral fatigue", this is when a cuticle swells for an extended periods of time. 
- 
Avoiding clarifying out of fear - Sweat, styling build up and mineral deposits coat the strands quickly here. Choosing the right cleanser for textured hair in the UAE is about removing what blocks moisture without aggressing the scalp. Understanding what type of cleanser your curls need and how frequently impacts everything else that follows - from moisture absorption to your styling results. 
- 
Styling the same year all year-round - The UAE and Middle East may not have clear season the way other parts of the world do, but it certainly has hot and cool season, as such your wash day routine should be flexible and account for this. 
- 
Treating the changes seen as damage instead of adaptation - The majority of the time your curls are not damaged, they simply are adapting to a new environment and require a regimen that does the same. 
How to reset your curly hair regimen for UAE and the Middle East Climate
Resetting your curly hair routine, doesn't necessarily mean you have to start from scratch or getting rid of all your existing products. It could simply mean you need to make small adjustments.
What it does mean is:
- A thorough detoxifying wash and regular use of a chelating shampoo to remove hard water minerals and residue. This is the single, biggest change you can implement in your routine that will yield almost instant results - your curls will feel less weighed down, you'll see better absorption of your products leading to a smoother hair cuticle and better styling results on Day 1.
- Moisturising with understanding, not excess which can lead to further breakage and reduced elasticity.
- Reworking your styling routine with consideration for how quickly evaporation occurs (speed) and not just day 1 definition. This is closely linked to one of the curly hair trends shaping 2026.
- Observing your curls response to the climate instead of following a strict routine, understand how your curls have changed and review after make a change at a time. Don't rush the process your curls will catch up.
When your regimen aligns with regional conditions, the consistency and predictability you saw before returns.
Signs Your Curls Are Adapting: What To Expect in 2-3 months
Textured hair often feels unpredictable at first. This is the readjusting and adaption phase, a normal course for curly hair. A reminder here - change doesn't happen overnight, it compounds over time with consistency. Once you have reset your regimen stick with it for a minimum of 6-8 weeks, to allow for the results to begin to show.
You'll see:
- Moisture rebalance, you will not need to remoisturise too frequently as you build a routine for moisture retention.
- Styling becomes more predictable as you understand porosity changes, product quantities required and master layering techniques for curl definition and longevity.
- Hair strands feel more responsive - greater elasticity, improved curl clumps.
Conclusion
If your curls changed after moving to the UAE, it doesn't mean they're damaged or failing you. They are simply adjusting to the climate and environmental factors. Don't chase quick hacks, focus on resetting your curl routine to work with the local climate and your hair will become manageable, predictable and more responsive.
Take the first step to resetting your routine with our [ Curated range of Curl Detox Essentials ]
FAQs
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/curly-hair-care-guide-middle-east

September 03, 2025•19 min read ★
Curly hair thrives on moisture, this is a foundational truth but it also requires the right balance. What do we mean? 
In the Middle East, curly hair sits at the edge of two extremes:
• Too much moisture from humidity, causing cuticle swelling and frizz.
• Too little internal hydration from heat, air conditioning and mineral heavy water.
Mastering curly hair care in the Middle East is an art and a science defined by heat, humidity and hard water challenges. The constant imbalance is why curly hair may feel dry and frizzy at the same time.
At Emerson, The Middle East’s First Curl Lifestyle Destination, we curate and educate on curly hair care within the context of the regional climate, to eliminate the endless cycle of trial and error.
Recently, our founder was featured in Cosmopolitan Middle East, sharing expert insights on styling curly hair in the region’s unique climate. This guide builds on those same principles, helping you move from trial and error to a routine that works with your environment, regardless of whether you’re located in Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Doha, Riyadh or elsewhere in the Middle East.
In this guide you'll discover how to:
- Build a curly hair routine that protects against heat, humidity and hard water.
- Adjust your regimen to the season - summer survival to autumn renewal
- Avoid common mistakes that lead to dry, frizzy curls
- Incorporate sulfate free products in your regimen
 
- Identify your porosity and choose the best curly hair products
Climate Factors That Shape Curly Hair in the Middle East
To build a good curly hair routine, you must firstly understand the environmental conditions your curls are up against in the Middle East. The reality is there is no perfect condition for curls in any region and hence the need for the best curly hair products and tools to support overall hair health which includes products that add moisture, strength and aids good hair elasticity.
Once you understand these factors, you'll unlock the first key to thriving curls in Dubai and beyond.
The climate factors to consider include:
- Extreme heat: Desert heat is more than just a phrase, it's a daily reality that accelerates moisture loss which can lead to dry, brittle curls.
- High humidity: Leaves the hair cuticle swollen due to excessive moisture in the air that textured hair naturally craves. The by product of this? Frizz and lack of curl definition.
- Hard water: This is linked to one of the biggest challenges women highlight when moving to Dubai or the wider GCC - hair loss. This often arises due to the impact of hard water minerals that coat the hair shaft and limit hydration and moisture absorption in the hair shaft. Learn more about choosing the right clarifying shampoo to tackle hard water on curly hair here
- Air conditioning: Strips curly hair of moisture and dries the scalp of its natural oils, leaving them dry and brittle. Unfortunately, this is a challenge all year round.
- Dust: Can contribute to scalp stress and inflammation which could ultimately clog the hair follicles if the correct cleansing methods are not applied.
Unfortunately, there is no magical fix to protect your curls from all these factors. However there are some essential products that your routine should incorporate. It is important to highlight this early on, your curl care ritual shouldn't be static, there will be a need to evolve and adapt your routine as the seasons change and different climate factors come into play.
Take the extreme heat and humidity we experience in Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Riyadh and the wider GCC in the summer, frizz is the ultimate challenge and so building a humidity proof curly hair routine is essential in the summer. This is exactly why we curated our Limited Edition Summer Curl Edit, a step by step layering system that delivers long lasting defined and frizz free curls.
These factors also not only highlight why routines need to continually adapt, they are also shaping curl care and wash day routines going into 2026. Explore these insights in our 2026 Curly Hair Trend Report, which outlines what defined 2025, and what will dominate in 2026. 
Now we've outlined the challenges that the Middle Eastern climate poses for curly hair textures, the next step is building a hair regimen that defends and protects against these factors. A truly effective routine goes beyond just products, curl care should be centered on four key pillars - Cleansing, Conditioning, Styling and Protection.
Building A Curly Hair Regimen For The Middle East Climate - That Works!
When it comes to building a routine that works, do not leave hair porosity out of the equation. You may or may not have heard of concepts such as low porosity hair or high porosity hair, this isn’t just curly hair jargon, this applies to all hair types, though greater importance is placed on it particularly for curly textures. Why?
Once you understand your hair porosity and environment, you can tailor an effective routine which will keep your curls thriving regardless of external factors. If you're unsure of your porosity or want to understand why it has more significance than your curl type or pattern, we have created a separate guide covering this in depth - Porosity Over Pattern: The Curl Factor That Actually Matters.
An effective curly hair routine should be built around these 4 core pillars:
- Cleansing
- Conditioning
- Styling
- Protection
Best Shampoo for Curly Hair in the Middle East: What To Look For
With the rise of curly hair influencers in this social media age, it's easy to get carried away with the belief that the most important part of curly haircare is your styling routine. This is a myth. Cleansing remains the starting point and the foundation of healthy curls including the styling results that come with it. Cleansing correctly is more so important in the Middle East, due to build up that comes with hard water in the region, sun exposure and heat. It's important to have a range of cleansers in your product stash to target these challenges.
As the popular saying by Dr Myles Monroe goes where purpose is unknown, abuse is inevitable.
Different cleansers serve different purposes, let’s break it down:
- Clarifying shampoos for curly hair removes deep build up from products, dust and environmental aggressors.
- Chelating shampoos go one step further, think of it as a clarifying shampoo for hard water, it strips the hair of all hard water effects including chlorinated water.
- Moisturising shampoos for curly hair, serve as your regular shampoo that balances hydration and gentle build up removal.
- Co wash (conditioning washing) adds back softness to dry curls and lightly cleanses whilst imparting moisture and conditioning benefits.
Living in the Middle East, it’s absolutely crucial that you have at least two types of sulfate free shampoos on rotation as part of your hair regimen.
- A moisturising shampoo - this should act as your primary gentle cleanser.
- A clarifying shampoo or chelating shampoo - if you already have a water filter, a clarifying shampoo for curly hair is required over a chelating shampoo for non swimmers. If you’re an avid swimmer a chelating shampoo such as Kinky Curly Come Clean is a must.
The second aspect of choosing a cleanser for your curls is based around your hair porosity.
Low porosity hair is naturally more prone to build up due to the tightly bound hair cuticle, as such an effective low porosity curly hair routine should incorporate a clarifying shampoo at least once every 2-3 weeks.
When compared with high porosity hair which drinks moisture rapidly but loses it just as fast, a moisturising shampoo or a co wash would be required more frequently and a clarifying shampoo once every 4 weeks.
We've curated a range of the best curly hair shampoos that are naturally derived and sulfate free that deliver a thorough cleanse whilst balancing your hair's natural oils and moisture - Explore our range of shampoos and cleansers
Conditioning Curly Hair for Maximum Benefits: What Type and When?
Conditioning is key for restoring lost moisture, strengthen the hair and nourish the depth of the hair strands - the cortex, this part of your curl routine is what will enable you to avoid dry, brittle curls. The term conditioner has many subtypes, similar to shampoo, the goal is to incorporate the most suitable type for your hair's needs. Conditioners range from instant, deep, moisturising, protein to leave in conditioners.
After cleansing, a conditioner is required to increase the level of moisture your hair needs and retains, increase softness and manageability for styling.
Type of conditioners for curly hair include:
Instant Conditioner - This is your regular conditioner which provides instant conditioning benefits in terms of how it looks and feels. Typical usage guidance will state "let it sit for 3-5 minutes". This is perfect for those that have wash day routine at least twice a week and if you're short on time or need a follow up conditioner after an intensive protein rich treatment.
Leave in Conditioner - The best leave in conditioners contain humectants, emollients and emulsifiers for easy application, spreadability and moisture penetration. This is your base for final detangling and primer for styling.
Deep Conditioner or Hair Mask - A more intensive conditioning treatment formulated to penetrate the core of the hair shaft and deliver longer lasting nourishment, as such requires a minimum of 15 minutes for full absorption but more depending on the level of damage or the degree of hair porosity.
Reconstructive Conditioner - As the name implies, this is for curls that require a deep level of conditioning with a treatment designed to rebuild and repair damage, this is particularly useful for high porosity hair, coloured curls, damaged curls or even transitioning curls.
How and When To Deep Condition Curly Hair
In warmer climates like Dubai, Abu Dhabi or Riyadh and where heavy air conditioning is present, moisture can escape rapidly, so this step is non-negotiable if your curls are to stay hydrated and moisturised for longer. We recommend a weekly deep moisturising conditioning treatment after cleansing, for no more than 30-40 mins if heat is applied. If heat is applied, be sure to allow your curls to cool for 5-10 mins before rinsing with cool water.
Think of a conditioning treatment as a super smoothie for your curls.
For Low Porosity Hair
3 out of 4 times this should be a moisturising deep conditioner or hair mask. The length of time for maximum conditioning benefits could be up to an hour, if heat is not applied.
For Medium to High Porosity Hair
Deep conditioning treatments should target a moisture-protein balanced treatment to enable filling of the gaps in the hair structure to minimise porosity and moisture loss, in addition to rebuilding what the hair was naturally designed to have - protein which preserves the hairs integrity.
This is not to say, low porosity curly hair doesn't need protein, it certainly does - however a lower dosage as the hair is less porous.
Leave in Conditioners for Curly Hair: Best Choices
Following a deep conditioning treatment, your next layer of conditioning is an essential and not a luxury, if you want great styling results that last and don't result in dry, frizzy curls. Let's explain:
In a climate where curly hair demands more, more hydration, more sealing, it will actively seek out ways to get it, particularly in heightened humidity experienced in Dubai, Kuwait City and Riyadh. If you don't provide your curls with the hydrating base they require through application of the best leave in conditioner, they will extract moisture vapour from the air, which will cause the hair cuticle to swell and frizz begin to surface, unravelling any styling efforts before Day 2.
Leave in conditioners not only add to the moisture your hair retains until your next wash day but assists with laying your foundation for your styling efforts by reducing surface level frizz and smoothing the hair cuticle, to give your curls the perfect primed slate for beautiful curl clumps that lead to perfect curl definition.
How to apply a leave in conditioner:
- Immediately, following the rinse out of your deep conditioner, whilst your hair is still wet. You may wonder why wet hair is often recommended, wet hair is much easier to manipulate and prime.
- Smooth along the length of the hair from root to tip (avoiding the scalp).
- Follow up by distributing the product through with a wide tooth comb or detangling brush for curly hair such as Tangle Teezer.
Best Leave In Conditioners for Curly Hair in the Middle East
Let's look at this through the lens of your curl porosity, for long lasting hydration that actually absorbs.
For Low Porosity Hair: lightweight leave in conditioners which contain a water and a humectant base are best. These formulas support better moisture absorption in cuticles which lay flat and are tightly packed - a key characteristic of low porosity curls.
Our expert recommendations:
- Kinky Curly Knot Today Leave In & Detangler - A herbal based lightweight hydrator packed with humectants such as marshmallow root and slippery elm which offers maximum slip for easy absorption and spreadability. This remains our best seller and a cult classic for this reason.
- Innersense Sweet Spirit Leave In Conditioner - Another lightweight and fast absorbing leave in spray form that combines humectants with cuticle smoothing ingredients to minimise frizz whilst hydrating.
- Mielle Pomegranate & Honey Leave In Conditioner - A water based, humectant rich, high slip leave in conditioner, that glides on the hair shaft with ease and smells delightful. Known to enhance moisture retention without heaviness.
For high porosity hair, emollient based leave in conditioners paired with protein rich formulas are recommended to rebuild the hair's structure - your basis for strong curls and slow moisture loss.
Our expert recommendations:
- Camille Rose Curl Love Moisture Milk - A popular leave in, known for its silky, rich creamy texture which deeply penetrates dry, thirsty curls. It contains a nourishing blend of rice milk, macadamia oil, rosehip oil and slippery elm to smooth the cuticle for long lasting hydration.
- Jessicurl Too Shea Extra Moisturising Conditioner - a rich and cream conditioner which doubles as an instant and leave in conditioner for high porosity curls. Packed with Shea butter, jojoba and avocado oil to deliver deep moisture, tame frizz and leave curls more manageable and soft.
- Curls Blueberry Bliss Reparative Leave In Conditioner - A powerhouse leave in for repairing high porosity, damaged or weak curls. It offers protein reinforcements through its protein rich formula containing hydrolyzed quinoa and silk amino acids, making it a must have for curly hair during periods of high humidity.
Stylers in the Middle East: From Curl Creams to Curl Defining Gels
If you’ve ever felt like your curls look different the moment you step outside, you’re not imagining it. In our recent Cosmopolitan Middle East feature, we explain how styling techniques, particularly applying products to soaking-wet hair and layering correctly directly impacts curl definition and frizz control in humid climates.
Stylers are the cherry on the top of your curly hair routine. On freshly washed and conditioned hair, your stylers are set to sculpt your natural curl pattern, deliver hold, volume or shine. Your styling results are a function of the right foundation from cleansing and conditioning and the right curly hair styling product to achieve your desired results. We'll explore the stylers best suited to achieving your styling goals.
Why Curl Definition Starts With the Base Layer
Many focus on the final styling product when trying to achieve defined curls that last for days. But in climates like Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Doha, or Riyadh, curl definition begins long before the final hold product is applied.
At Emerson, we call this The Curl Base Layer.
The curl base is the first styling layer applied after your leave-in conditioner. Its role is to prepare the hair for long-lasting definition by creating the right balance of:
Curl Creams - Where Hydration Meets Definition
Curl Creams are a fantastic styling option for added nourishment and soft, touchable definition. However, not all curl creams perform well in heat and humidity, some leave curls lifeless and greasy due to unbalanced formulas, while others provide the right balance that allow curls to easy absorb into the hair shaft without the weight and residue.
When choosing the best curl cream in UAE and wider Middle East, focus on rich formulas, balanced for both protein and moisture. The right curl cream should be lightweight enough for curls to remain hydrated, defined and frizz free without weighing them down.
What to Look For in a Curl Cream:
- Moisture-Protein Balance - hydration and strength to prevent lifeless curls
- Lightweight Texture - minimise build up in high humidity
- Frizz Control - smooth and seal the cuticle to avoid moisture loss or cuticle swelling
- Layering Ability - Can be paired with a strong hold gel, mousse or serum with no curdling or flaking.
Our top recommendation: TreLuxe Curl Supreme 4 in 1 Hydrating Creme.
This curl cream is one we continually endorse as perfect for this region, with a thick silky cream texture, that delivers a nourishing dose of strength and softness for hydrated, defined and bouncy curls. A product that works across all porosities.
Curl Defining Gels - The Frizz Shield
Think of curl creams as the added layer of moisture that defines, curl styling gels can be used as a base styler instead of a curl cream or a final styler for hold - the shield that locks it all in, it sculpts and sets. The right styling gel for curly hair will envelope your curls with a light film to seal your curl definition, that film should serve as your barrier against heat which weakens hold, often leading to humidity induced frizz. This step could make or break your styling efforts, it can be the difference between curls that last until Day 4 or 5 or curl definition that unravels by Day 2.
To maintain the optimal moisture levels obtained from the previous steps, it's important to stay away from gels that contain high alcohol content, as this will simply dry out your curls and begin the cycle of dry, brittle and frizzy curls.
Curl defining gels offer various levels of hold from soft, flexible, medium to strong hold but not all gels offer both maximum definition and hold to withstand 80% humidity and above. This is where smart layering comes in, choose a styler which offers maximum definition through use of film formers to sculpt your curls and a small dose of a concentrated strong hold finishing gel to carry curls past Day 3-4.
Our expert recommendations:
- Uncle Funky's Curl Magic - A medium hold styling gel that stimulates your curls into formation. Packed with aloe vera, marshmallow root and hydrolyzed soy protein. This formula reinforces curls that are exposed by forming a light film to block humidity.
Pro Tip: For added frizz control in extreme humidity, layer a pea sized amount per section of Innersense I Create Hold to lock in definition.
- Treluxe Hi! Defining Curl Enhancer Styling Gel - An excellent firm hold gel that delivers definition that lasts without flaking. Key ingredients include Aloe, Seaweed extract, Xanthan Gum, Keratin Amino Acids and Honey. All in a concentrated formula to strengthen your curls while providing lightweight film forming to keep curls frizz free.
Why it works in the Middle East: It's a strong enough standalone styler for heat and average humidity, for further humidity protection, layer this over The Doux Mousse Def for beautiful volume and added frizz control.
- Kinky-Curly Curling Custard - A cult favourite by curlies worldwide for a reason. This curling custard offers stunning slip, definition and shine resulting in stunning curl clumps. If you prefer a flexible cast, this is a perfect styling gel choice, all year round.
Curl Protection: Best Practices and Expert Tips
The most effective way to protect your curls whilst your home during the day or overnight is by choosing the right pillowcase or bonnet. The worst thing you could do after great wash day results is sleep on a cotton pillowcase hoping your curls will still look great the following morning.
Fabrics like cotton will unravel your results by extracting moisture and creating friction on the hair cuticle, leading to frizz and breakage. Silk or Satin fabrics are the solution here.
Satin Vs. Silk: Which is Better For Curly Textures?
If budget is a constraint start with satin, though silk offers far more benefits.
Satin bonnets and pillowcases are far more gentle than cotton on curly hair, however satin isn't a breathable fabric, as such build up and mold can quickly arise, which is often not detectable by the human eye. Satin also doesn't actively support the hair's protein structure.
Silk pillowcases and silk bonnets, especially those made with Mulberry silk are far superior, in that they provide integral support to preserve the hair shaft and are breathable.
Silk is made up of a complex of amino acids such as glycine and serine, these amino acids are complementary to the keratin naturally present in the hair's structure, enabling silk to act as protein reinforcer and strengthen the hair shaft to reduce breakage and support moisture retention.
Claims that Mulberry silk should be the standard for accessories are beyond a marketing gimmick. This grade of silk is produced by silkworms that feed of mulberry leaves which leads to long, uniform and the smoothest of silk fibers, which takes the cuticle smoothing and preservation properties of silk a step further.
The key takeaway here is that with the climate factors at play in the Middle East, curl protection is essential and of equal importance as the quality of curly hair products. It's not one or the other, they work hand in hand to achieve healthy, thriving curls.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/curly-hair-care-kids-dubai-mummy-me

August 04, 2025•10 min read ★
Curly Hair Care for Kids in the UAE: Why It Starts Early
Firstly, it’s important to understand that curly hair care for kids goes beyond a Google search for finding the best curly hair products for kids. Curly hair care begins with identity.
While curly hair has now become somewhat of a trend over the last few years, for many of us, growing up with naturally curly hair was, and still is, an uphill battle.
Growing up, this was part of our identity that was not adequately catered to and ignored by conventional beauty standards. We were told our hair needed to be tamed and chemically treated for it to be more manageable and viewed as beautiful.
The concept of curl care for kids didn’t exist. Only recently, with the rise of Curly Hair Salons in Dubai and Abu Dhabi, have curl care services for kids become more widely available - and we've reviewed the best curly hair salons for kids in Dubai to help you find trusted curl specialists for cuts, treatments and styling.
While many of us are only now reclaiming our curls in adulthood, the next generation deserves something more, something better, something earlier - we need this same care and curl confidence built and nurtured in children with curly hair.
To unpack how early curly hair forms identity, read our latest feature on generational confidence and representation - Rewriting the Story of Curly Hair.
Curly Hair Care for Kids in Dubai: Identity First, Products Second
Curl confidence starts young, and as parents, we lay the foundation. Our children learn by watching us - seeing us wear our curls with pride, styling them and caring for them. What a delight it is to hear curly kids say “I want curls just like mummy” or daddy.
Curly care for kids should be rooted in identity and seen as a true beauty feature that is the norm - not something different. It also goes beyond simply detangling for curly kids.
This is why we created the Mummy & Me Curl Experience, Dubai - the first of its kind in the Middle East. It was not curated as just another a curly hair event in the UAE. Nor just a styling event, but a celebration of identity, heritage and natural hair, affirmed through rituals, education and intentional moments of connection between a mother and her curly kids. A space where children see themselves and their curls as worthy of celebration, not later but now.
Inside Edition One: A Closer Look at The Mummy & Me Curl Experience
Every moment of the experience was curated to affirm identity, educate and celebrate through unique rituals. Here’s how we brought this to life:
Curl Quest
We designed a full sensory discovery zone where little ones explored textures, porosity and scent - learning the science of their curls through touch, smell and guided curiosity.
Styling Station
A hands on expert guided station with Missa of BouclebyMissa where mums learned techniques to detangle, style and protect little curls at home.
Mirror Me
A live keepsake illustration station where mothers and children sat for hand drawn portraits, a visual memory of connection, the moment they embraced their curls together.
Quiet corner
A peaceful breakout space filled with affirmation colouring sheets, books and calm. Designed as a reset space for overstimulated children to rest.
These stations where thoughtfully considered to ensure they weren’t just cute moments but moments that formed part of an impactful and meaningful experience - a blueprint for raising confident kids.
Take a look at what made this uniquely curated kids event in Dubai so memorable here.
Edition Two is Coming!
Spots for Edition One were filled within days.
[🔔 Be the first to know ]
Join our private mailing list or WhatsApp list to be the first to know when doors open for the next Mummy & Me Curl Experience.
Why Curly Hair is Part of Your Child’s Identity: A Parent’s Guide
It’s easy to forget, but research shows us that a large percentage of children’s behaviour and development forms during the first five years of their life - a critical time when their belief system is being shaped.
Imagine your child being told what they were naturally born with isn’t good enough or is “too messy”. That child may begin to associate curly hair with being unmanageable.
This is a reminder that curly hair, and hair generally is a big part of our identity, and this should be affirmed as early as possible. The beauty of cities like Dubai, Abu Dhabi and the UAE more broadly is their diversity, with expats from so many parts of the world - different accents, skin tones and hair types.
While individuality is often celebrated in terms of nationality, there’s still more to be done when it comes to embracing naturally curly hair in kids.
Overcoming generational stigma associated with Curly Hair in the Middle East
With the prevalence of keratin and brazilian blowout treatments in many UAE hair salons, we understand there will still be some challenges in changing the belief systems of children who are old enough to recognise the dominance of straight textures.
However, this doesn’t have to be a challenge you face alone. With Emerson as a curl lifestyle destination here in the Middle East, we curate experiences and tools you can use to make this process easier. As with other aspects of parenting, regular nurturing and affirmation of curly hair kids is imperative.
It’s not just a grooming habit you want to cultivate through a curly hair routine but something they take great pride in. So even if they occasionally try out non curly hairstyles, they always return to their curls as a source of pride.
Curly Hair Routine for Kids: Why Rituals Matter in Raising Confident Kids
Most parents understand the importance of maintaining routines in early childhood - it builds familiarity, structure and a sense of safety and assurance.
Take sleep, for example: a newborn doesn’t intuitively understand the concept of day and night. However, over time, through constant cues - light, feeding, bath time, bedtime, this routine creates repetition. Repetition builds rhythm. Patterns shape awareness.
The same is true for curly care - start by turning curly hair routines for kids into rituals. Create a calm, fun, loving environment when you’re detangling, washing, moisturising or styling your little one’s curls.
Whether it’s putting on their favourite song whilst detangling and run a bubble bath while cleansing and conditioning. Turn it into a moment of connection - use affirming words whilst applying curly hair products for kids, staying mindful of their tender scalps.
Here’s a practical, child-friendly routine that works for little curls. Save this and refer to it as often as needed. This is where healthy hair habits begin.
The Emerson Approved Curly Hair Routine for Kids
This is your stating point - hydration and conditioning are the foundation. Adjust for your child’s curl porosity and apply products proportionally to their curl density.
Step 1: Gentle Cleansing (1-2 times a week)
Use a sulphate free cleanser - shampoo or cowash to gently cleanse the scalp and hair. This will lift dirt, debris and build up whilst imparting hydration. 
Expert Tip: Ensure you work the cleanser into the scalp and distribute through the strands after wetting the hair, this will help activate the cleanser upon contact.For extremely dry curls, we highly recommend alternating between a shampoo and cowash.
Step 2: Condition, Condition, Condition (1-2 times a week)
This is what reinforces that much need moisture beneath the surface, to keep curls healthy, supple and more manageable. After cleansing, apply the conditioner from root to ends, avoiding the scalp and let it sit for 5-15 mins.
Expert Tip: Cover with plastic cap for better absorption
Want to build your child’s curl routine with confidence? Explore our Mummy & Me Edit An expert curated range of products designed to cleanse, nourish and define your little one’s curls.
Styling Little Curls: The Best Curly Hair Products and Accessories For Kids
A good curly hair routine doesn’t need to be complicated, but it does need to be intentional. With the right products and techniques, you can transform your child’s curls from frizz to beautifully defined ringlets and coils they’ll love and be proud of.
Step 3: Detangle with slip and patience
An important step and game changer, when done intentionally, you can build a tear free curl routine for your little one.
While the hair is still wet, part hair into sections and apply a detangler that is slip rich and free from sulphates and silicones.
Our expert picks: two detangling options that have changed tender scalps forever:
Both serve dual purposes detangling and a leave in to help prime the curls for styling. Use a wide tooth comb first to loosen knots and matting, and if desired follow up with a detangling brush.
Step 4: Moisturise for softness and strength
If your child’s curls are thick or dry, a richer dose of moisture may be required. Apply a moisture milk after detangling to increase softness, moisture and manageability.
Our expert picks:
Camille Rose Kids Sundaze Glaze
Step 5: Define and Style with a Curl Cream or Gel
Pick curly hairstyles that are versatile, neat and enhance your little one's curls. Styling is another opportunity to build healthy associations between your child and their curls.
Discover 5 minute easy curly hairstyles for kids, every parent need - perfect for school days, special occasions and everything in between.
A gentle curly routine for kids should finish up with styling, once each section has been well detangled and moisturised, seal the deal with a styling gel or cream.
Rub the curl cream or gel in between your palms to activate the product. Apply using the praying hands or raking method, then lightly cup each section of curls and scrunch upwards for definition.
Our expert picks:
Camille Rose Kids Sweet Pudding Buttercream
The Final Touch: Hair Accessories That Protect and Shine
Complete the look with a decorative clip or curl safe accessory. For ponytails or buns use a silk or satin scrunchie to prevent friction, frizz and breakage.
Want expert-approved curly hair products for kids in the UAE? Explore our curated product and accessory range here
Where Curl Confidence Begins: It Starts With You
Caring for your child’s curls doesn’t require superior know-how, it requires intentionality by building a foundation of self love, acceptance and confidence from the very beginning.
The Mummy & Me Curl Experience - Edition One (June 2025) was the first of its kind in the Middle East and Dubai, and it demonstrated first hand how powerful early affirmation, hands on education and curl discovery positioned as ritual, truly is.
Whether you’re trying to navigate detangling curly hair after a swimming session or styling your child’s coils for the school week - each moment is a chance to show your child that their natural texture is beautiful, seen and celebrated.
If you're ready to begin or elevate your child’s curly hair journey, explore our handpicked range of gentle curl friendly products and accessories Start Here: Discover Our Mummy & Me Collection - expertly chosen for gentle, high performance curl care essentials.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/curly-hair-dryer

November 26, 2024•11 min read ★
TABLE OF CONTENTS
- The Nature of Curly Hair
- Best Ways to Care for Your Curly Hair
 Types of Cleansers for Curly Hair
 What Not to Do with Curly Hair
- The Best Blow Dryer for Curly Hair in the UAE
- FAQs
- Conclusion
THE NATURE OF CURLY HAIR
All hair is created equal; however, they differ in the shape of the follicle and the fiber. Curly hair comes from a curved bulb deep in the scalp. Moreover, the winding shape is caused by the irregular distribution of keratin, which is the building block of hair. Whatever the type of hair is, whether it’s straight or curly, the two major components are the shaft and follicle.
The visible strands are called the shaft, while the follicle resides within the scalp. Straight hair typically has round follicles. Curly hair on the other hand tends to be oval-shaped. The flatter the oval, the curlier the hair will be. Primarily, the shaft is defined by protein bonding that involves keratin in particular.
A fibrous protein with cysteine amino acids, keratin forms strong bonds with other molecules containing sulfur.
BEST WAYS TO CARE FOR YOUR CURLY HAIR
There is boundless information cantered on how to wash, the frequency of washing, and what blow dryer to use for curly hair among others. The following are best ways to care for your naturally curly hair in the humid weather of UAE.
1. Choose the Right Shampoo
The first step in any hair care routine is to wash the hair. Washing or cleansing ensures that the hair is free of excess oil, no dust, no product build up, and no dead skin cells on the scalp. Use a mild shampoo that has no toxic chemicals, such as alcohol, sulfates, silicones, and parabens. All these can irritate the scalp. Consider fragrance-free and paraben-free shampoos.
2. Don’t Overdo Shampooing
Curly hair tends to become easily dry. The hair’s natural moisture will be sucked out by excessive shampooing. Always check out the moisturizing ingredients in a conditioner. Conditioning hair ensures that the cuticle is sealed and protected from environmental damage.
3. Refrain from Brushing Curly Hair
Instead of brushing your hair, consider using a wide-toothed comb before shampooing. You can simply run your fingers through your hair afterward. Brushing wet hair makes it more prone to damage and breakage.
4. Use a Pre-Shampoo Treatment
For those with curly hair, using a pre-shampoo treatment is bliss. The treatment helps detangle and remove frizz. You can apply a hair mask or a conditioning oil, and leave it for about 20 minutes to ensure proper penetration.
5. Trim to Avoid Split Ends
Get curly hair trimmed every 6-8 weeks to remove split ends and damaged hair. It’s nice for curly hair to always look and feel healthy.
6. Redefine Curls
Redefining curls is a must even if you don’t wash your hair. After taking a hot shower, stay there for a couple of minutes to let the steam soak into the hair. This rejuvenates the curls. Apply a styling cream as soon as you get out of the shower.
7. Air Dry your Hair Whenever You Can
After taking a shower, apply a leave-on conditioner and an anti-frizz cream. Twist small sections of hair around your fingers to form small ringlets. Hold for 15-20 seconds. Don’t touch it until it’s dry so the curls stay defined.
8. Cut Long Layers into Shape
This will not only lighten your hair but also makes it appear less bottom-heavy. However, refrain from cutting layers that are too short.
9. Refresh Curls with a Humidity-Friendly Mist
Due to the humidity, curls may begin to lose their definition or shape. Use a hydrating curl mist to refresh your hair. Choose one that’s water-based and infused with ingredients, including honey or glycerin to attract moisture.
10. Use Cold Water for Hair
Hot water showers strip off the hair and scalp’s natural sebum or oil. Moreover, it can open the cuticle, making the hair strands prone to breakage and frizz. In UAE, cold water rinses are the safest bet whether you’re shampooing or conditioning your hair.
Types of Cleansers for Curly Hair
A cleanser can remove build-up, dead skin, dirt, and excess oil as well as lift hair cuticles from the scalp to the shaft. Typically, cleansers are composed of 40-60 percent water. However, some brands have a highly-concentrated formula that integrates less than 40 percent of water and you have to activate it by emulsifying it with water. The major types of cleansers for curly hair include:
- Moisturizing. There is a huge number of moisturizing shampoos in the market today. Nevertheless, a shampoo loaded with subpar oils does not ensure its moisturizing properties. This is where moisturizing cleansers come in. While created to clean the hair, cleansers do not strip it of its natural moisture.
- Clarifying or Detoxing. Often, clarifying or detoxing leaves curls feeling stripped of moisture. A detoxing or clarifying cleanser is formulated for deep cleansing levels and lifting heavy build-up of product and debris on the scalp. Moreover, these cleansers provide a clean slate not just for the curls but the scalp as well.
- Chelating. This cleanser stands out from the rest because of its ability to clean, bind, and lift hard water residue as well as the build-up of mineral calcium. In the Middle East, such as in the UAE, hard water is common. It’s highly recommended to use a chelating shampoo at least once a month if you live in the UAE.
What Not to Do with Curly Hair
- Refrain from washing curly hair daily since it can remove the natural oils.
- Avoid frequent heat styling because it can strip off the moisture from the curls.
- Do not let hair remain in tight ponytails all the time because the pulling can cause scalp pain.
- Don’t settle for a one-size-fits-all product. Choose one that’s specially created for your hair type.
- Do not sleep on a cotton pillowcase because it can create friction between strands.
- Do not allow anyone to cut your hair using a razor. The technique is wonderful for experienced stylists when done on straight hair. On curly hair, however, it roughens up the hair cuticle, making it prone to breakage and frizz.
THE BEST BLOW DRYER FOR CURLY HAIR IN THE UAE
With so many products to choose from, finding the best blow dryer for your curly hair in the United Arab Emirates could be daunting. Whether or not you’re looking for a professional-grade dryer or an everyday essential, choosing the right one can remarkably impact the appearance and health of your curly hair.
A blow dryer for curly hair should come with a diffuser to minimize frizz. If you’re wondering what's the best blow dryer for curly hair, look for ceramic tech and adjustable heat settings. Here are our top picks for a good curly hair dryer.
The right hair dryer for curly hair doesn't just dry - it shapes. We tested models that work wonders for soft waves and coily textures alike
Here’s an extensive guide on choosing the best hair dryer for your curls in the UAE.
Understand the Hair Type
It’s important to understand your hair type to determine the right blow dryer. This is because different hair types require different levels of heat and airflow settings, such as:
- Thin or Fine Hair
 Requires lower heat settings to maintain volume and avoid damage.
- Coarse or Thich Hair
 Higher heat settings and powerful airflow are great for this kind of hair for it to dry efficiently.
- Wavy or Curly Hair. 
 Maintaining curls and minimizing frizz requires an attached diffuser.
High Wattage
The blow dryer's wattage determines its power. A higher wattage means faster drying times and more power, which is particularly important in the humid climate of the United Arab Emirates. For most users, a wattage from 1800 to 2200 is perfect. Moreover, higher wattage is suitable for long or thick hair, since they can reduce drying time significantly.
Ionic Technology
The humidity in the UAE could lead to frizzy hair, thus a hair dryer with ionic technology can be the game-changer. Ionic blow dryers emit negative ions that break down water molecules faster, significantly reducing the drying time and fighting frizz. Furthermore, the ionic technology is particularly beneficial to those with wavy, frizzy, or curly hair since it helps smoothen the hair cuticle, leaving it shiny and sleek-looking. 
Heat and Speed Settings
Typically, top-quality brow dryers have several speed and heat settings. This enables you to customize drying based on your styling needs and hair type. An ideal model should have at least three temperature settings, such as low, medium, and high. Moreover, there should be at least two-seed settings. The flexibility suits different hair conditions and styles.
Lightweight and Ergonomic Design
Comfort is paramount when choosing the best hair dryer, particularly if you style your hair often. Even if drying and styling your hair takes longer, an ergonomically designed and lightweight hair dryer minimizes wrist and hand strain. Choose a blow dryer that has a comfortable grip and balanced weight distribution.
Go for Ceramic or Tourmaline Technology
A hairdryer that integrates tourmaline or ceramic technology provides an even distribution of heat and emits infrared heat that’s gentler on the hair. Ceramic hair dryers are renowned for maintaining heat consistency, making them ideal for all types of hair. Tourmaline dryers on the other hand help minimize frizz and enhance shine. In the changing climate conditions in the UAE, these technologies are particularly useful, where consistent and gentle heat can prevent hair damage.
Cool Shot Button
This is an essential hair dryer feature. By releasing a burst of cold air, it helps lock hairstyles. It also adds shine and minimizes frizz, perfect for a polished hair look. In the United Arab Emirates’ heat, hair can rapidly lose its style, thus a cool shot button can help your hairstyle last longer.
Accessories and Attachments
Accessories and attachments, such as diffusers and concentrator nozzles can enhance your styling choices significantly. The concentrator nozzle directs the flow of air for precise styling, which is great for adding volume. A diffuser is great for adding texture and maintaining curls without the frizz. In buying a blow dryer in the UAE, check out the attachments included and how they complement the styling routine.
Durability and Warranty
Since a hair dryer is an investment, choose one that’s durable with a good warranty. High-quality materials ensure that it will last longer, even with frequent use. In UAE’s climate, where heat can impact the performance of electronic devices, a solid warranty spells peace of mind.
FAQs
1) How to Choose the Right Hair Dryer for the UAE?
The best choice would be a sturdy but light dual-voltage hair dryer that operates with a 220-volt. It should also include a long cord, a folding handle, and a safety plug.
2) What is the Main Voltage in the UAE?
The common voltage used in UAE is 220 volts.
3) What is the Best Setting for a Blow Dryer?
The settings are low, medium, and high. High heat typically is best for removing excess moisture fast. Medium heat is best for styling, and low heat is best for fine hair to minimize the risk of heat damage.
4) Can frequent use of a blow dryer cause damage?
Yes, using a hair dryer often with high heat can cause hair damage, making it brittle, dry, and prone to breakage.
5) What is the Purpose of a Blow Dryer?
The main purpose of a hair dryer is to blow hot or cold air to hasten water evaporation and to effectively dry hair. The blow dryer was invented by the French hairdresser and inventor Alexandre-Ferdinand Godfrov during the late 19th century.
6) What’s the best way to style curly hair in humid settings?
Consider using anti-humidity products, as well as a leave-on conditioner to lock in moisture and minimize frizz.
CONCLUSION
Finding the right blow dryer in the UAE involves taking into account the climate, your hair type, and the particular feature that could help you achieve the look you desire. When it comes to buying blow dryers in UAE, it’s important to find one that delivers professional-quality results. Whether you just want to upgrade your styling routine or battle humidity, the right blow dryer can make all the difference in achieving healthy, beautiful hair every day.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/curly-hair-hollywood

August 14, 2024•6 min read ★
Let's analyse if curly hair is fairly and truly represented in the media today.
We look at this through the lens of 10 must see movies featuring actors with curly hair.
Representation matters
Particularly in the various media outlets, Hollywood as the center of the western media has a substantial influence on beauty standards, in terms of what is considered desirable, acceptable and recognition worthy.
We find this topic very interesting to analyse as it’s very difficult to determine whether we have made progress in terms of curly hair representation or regressed, subject to what is considered the starting point in terms of timeline.
Looking back in time, did we see curls represented?
If we go back in time to 1976, the movie A star was born was released, featuring Barbara Streisand with her natural curls. We could say this was the start of an evolution with the move away from sleek and straight haired updos to confidently rocking her natural curls. Barbara was certainly on to something, now referred to as a beauty icon of our time for 8 decades and counting!
Fast forward to the late 80’s and early 90's, the iconic movies Dead Calm and Pretty Woman were released in the box office.
Dead Calm featuring Nicole Kidman was released in 1989, showcasing Kidman’s naturally vibrant strawberry blonde curls. Allure published an article in 2023, reminding us that Kidman has still got it, and there’s proof she still wears her natural curls every now and again.
Pretty woman, the iconic movie that put Julia Roberts’ name in lights and in our hearts. Released in 1990 but still a movie that can be watched time and time again, even if it is to enjoy the curls, the fashion and all the beauty. Roberts’ auburn curls are still an inspiration today with many content creators recreating those voluminous curls on TiTok.
What makes these curls so relatable is the natural ringlets that appear touchably soft. Achieving soft curl definition is possible through the use of light weight stylers such as a curl cream or foam or mousse.
In 1993, Andie MacDowell’s curls took center stage in the movie Groundhog Day. What we loved to see most in the movie was representation of how versatile curly and textured hair truly is, similar to straight hair textures. MacDowell's curls range from flawless loose curls with voluminous roots (could we ask for anything more!) to a gorgeous pinned up look, without compromising her curl pattern.
A brutal set back
Whilst we have focused on the positive representation, we saw pre-2000’s in Hollywood, thereafter we saw a major shift. This shift could be attributed to a change in beauty standards, this can be seen in Anna Hathway’s character in Princess Diaries. This movie shows an ordinary girl transform into a beautiful princess but whilst doing so we saw a story riddled with a message highlighting the undesirability, unacceptable and unworthiness of natural curls, as the ordinary girl with “frizzy” loose ringlets morphs into a beauty with straight, sleek hair.
Representation comes in different forms, not just showing different textures from straight, short, long to curly, but within each texture type they are sub textures which is typically determined by ethnic background and embedded in our DNA.
A glimmer of hope, perhaps?
Christiana Milan, the singer turned actress graced our screens starring alongside Nick Cannon in the movie Love Don't Cost A Thing. Whilst this movie didn’t do large box office numbers such as Pretty Woman or Princess Diaries, it plays its role in showcasing diversity in Hollywood and more specifically revealing another variant of curly hair. With glossy, tight black curls Milan played the primary love interest of Cannon, reminding us that curly hair is beautiful, attractive and extremely desirable.
Fast forward a few more years, we spot Alfre Woodard in the movie A family that preys, sporting shoulder length curls throughout the movie, with different degrees of definition reflecting that through styling you can enjoy looser elongated curls or super defined curls. This serves as a reminder that your natural curls are not one dimensional, if Hollywood recognises that you can too!
How can we not mention, Tracee Ellis Ross! Many forget she is the daughter of the legend that is Diana Ross, a powerful voice and a true definition of an advocate for natural curls. Similar to her mother, Ross has unapologetically embraced and flaunted her curls on everything from TV shows to Red carpet events. In the movie The High Note, she doesn’t fall short of expectations and stuns with a statement curly cut with bangs framing her facial features.
Representation for the next generation
A movie loved by the entire family - Spiderman. Spiderman 4 was the talk of the town when released back in 2019, with the prominent feature of young star Zendaya. Her natural curls took the internet by storm with many recreating her wash day routine with similar products, instead of lotions opting for soft gels such as Camille Rose Curl Maker - a soft curling jelly and Kinky Curly Curling Custard
Curl hope for the future?
This is what we certainly hope for! Jennifer Lopez “J Lo” has provided us with a ray of hope as she transforms in Sci Fi movie Atlas. Whilst she has very occasionally graced the red carpet with curly looks, it is refreshing to see such a decorated A lister lead a movie role with their natural curls - particularly as this image is pasted on headlines and all movie related media. Sporting a rounded curly cut similar to Tracee Ellis Ross in The High Note, we can’t help but adore the face framing which adds more depth to her natural curls.
What many of us curly girls will relate to is the wet look – the state we all go through to achieve that perfect curl definition for the ultimate wash and go. It’s clear the hair stylist on set opted for light definition and soft hold for her loose curls. If you want to achieve similar styling results, we recommend you use a styling foam that offers volume and definition and the technique here should be glazing with a few scrunches to encourage curl formation, Innersense I create lift is your go to!
Our emphasis remains, representation matters, we need it, society needs it. Remember your curls are beautiful, regardless of whether the media provides enough validation of this. Representation starts with you, if we all play our part, society will begin to adjust and adapt to a more well-rounded standard of beauty and not just trends.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/curly-hair-modern-arab

September 22, 2025•7 min read ★
Relationship complexities are not unique or limited to human interactions alone but extends to how we see ourselves. For generations, curly hair and textured hair more broadly has been almost a relationship of love and/or hate. It's almost as if curly hair lives in two mirrors - one that celebrates heritage and natural beauty, passed down in family histories. In another, curly hair is controlled, manipulated and straightened to fit Western beauty standards for weddings, school pictures, social gatherings and other big life events, all in the name of acceptability.
But over the last 5-6 years, a major shift has been brewing.
This shift we are beginning to see is bigger than beauty. It's cultural, generation and deeply tied to identity. Just as our In Her Mirror series explores the private intimacy of a curly haired woman with her curls, this story asks what curls mean in public: How Arab women and expats alike are reclaiming their natural curls and texture as an expression of heritage, confidence and belonging.
A moment of reflection: the opening frame from our In Her Mirror series - exploring what it means to truly see your curls.
[ Watch Episode 1 of In Her Mirror - Reflected Twice ]
The Evolving Landscape of Curly Hair in the Middle East
For as long as we can remember, curly hair in the region was rarely affirmed in mainstream culture. This could largely be as a result of Western influence on representation in the media. Though, what is interesting to discover is that decades before the infiltration of Western influence, curly hair was celebrated and recognised as feature that symbolised traditional beauty, vitality and heritage. However, with the passage of time, perceptions changed with curly hair often deemed as unruly as such was pulled and brushed back to bring it back into submission, to create a more neat and refined appearance.
Are we now seeing a reversion or the start of something new? From media prints to social ads we’re seeing greater representation of curly hair textures, of course there is some way to go, but change has begun. Other indicators of change include, the increase in availability of curly hair products in Dubai and the Middle East more generally, people with curly hair now have access to products that enhance their curls, allow them to embrace their curly hair more confidently.
At Emerson, The Middle East's 1st Curl Lifestyle Destination , we are so proud to be part this shift, a shift that allows us to reshape the narrative around curly hair in the region. In the last few years alone, Dubai in particular has become home to over 4 dedicated curly hair salons in the UAE - where you will find women embracing their curls, asking for curl specific treatments for both themselves and their children rather than defaulting to chemical straightening.
What we often like to highlight is the diversity and versatility of curly hair. Embracing your curly hair doesn't mean you can't wear it straight when you choose to - Variety is the spice of life after all! What we encourage is more a message of self love and care - reminding you that your curls are your power, they are your uniqueness. If you periodically choose to straighten them, opt for ways to protect them before straightening and nourish them after.
Embrace Your Curls: Marketing Slogan or Cultural Shift?
Let's turn to the concept of embracing one’s curly hair - this has almost become a marketing term in the curly hair community but it’s important to strip this back and understand where this sentiment stems from. Dana Sharawneh poses a similar question of what does it actually mean to “embrace your curls”, as if to say your curls weren’t normal to begin with? From a separate lens, Dana, in her article states the obvious in that - you never hear women with naturally straight textures “embracing straight hair”.
Though, the concept of embracing one’s natural curls has been watered down to a mere marketing term, it holds significant meaning for those of us who have undergone chemical treatments to conform to western and mass media beauty standards. We are now slowly moving to a place where what was once considered a frizzy mess is now viewed as beautiful. This is becoming more evident with the rise of curly hair salons in Dubai, however this is only one part of the story.
There’s a deeper shift taking place in the form of awareness, education and on going conversation. More women, men and children with curly hair are seeking out trusted sources of curl education. We see it first hand here at Emerson, not just in sales but in consultations as well as online and offline conversations.
This is exactly why we do what we do at Emerson, we go beyond simply retailing curly hair products, we are a curl hub - for curl community, education and culture - one we continue to help share in the Middle East region.
A Generational Shift in Curl Perception
For years and years, Arab women grew to believe that straight hair was more "presentable" or was the "goal" and curly hair required too much effort. Even outside of the Arab world, this is known to have been the case. Many of us can recall sitting in the salon chair ahead of a graduation, job interview or wedding, where the scent of a chemical relaxer or keratin treatment engulfed the salon, ready to transform what was viewed as untamed and unprofessional texture. Today, this belief and narrative is being disrupted.
Across the Middle East and Africa, women and mothers are becoming more aware and informed on the dangers of chemical straightening treatments. Curly haired women are now more empowered than ever to push back against this notion that curls need to be fixed, and are taking time out to learn more about curly hair texture through consultations, social media and curl focused events.
Now curls are being affirmed again as part of identity and heritage. Where one generation felt overwhelming pressure to suppress, the next is being empowered to embrace.
This generational shift is almost tangible, we witness this on social platforms such as Tiktok where teenagers are sharing their curly hair hacks - from finger coiling to experimenting with different styling products. Women in both creative and corporate spaces are more confident showing up with their curls styled and not hidden. From every life stage we see a reflection of a deep cultural movement, beyond trends.
At our Mummy & Me Curl Experience: Edition One, we saw this powerfully demonstrated. Mothers showing up for themselves and their little ones, not just passing down beauty lessons, but pride, confidence and identity . When a child learns to value their natural curls early on, they value a part of their identity. This transcends the home, it extends to school and wider society, supported by business like ours and by salons.
This is how real, meaningful movements are orchestrated, not only through taglines and visually appealing campaigns but everyday practices that celebrate natural hair.
What This Shift Means For the Future
The perception of curly hair in the modern Arab world is no longer about fitting in, its about standing out with confidence and pride. Where curls were not acceptable, they are now being recognised as a reflection of heritage and individuality. There is way to go in reshaping the narrative but the trajectory is clear, better representation, more education and more curl pride at every stage of life.
At Emerson, we own our part in the reshaping and our role is to continue leading this conversation in the Middle East, not just with curated curly hair products but with education, events and cultural storytelling to reinforce one key message: Your curls are uniquely yours, they are your power.
We invite you to explore, learn and celebrate your curls with us.
Follow us on Instagram @emerson.beauty
Shop our curated selection of high performance curly hair products HERE
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/curly-hair-routine-for-uae-winter

February 22, 2025•7 min read ★
Winter is a season that you either love or hate. The change in temperature sets the stage for a change of wardrobe, look or general style. We often see colour and shorter hair cuts trend in the Spring/Summer season and longer tresses and bangs trend in the Autumn/Winter months.
 
One thing that is for certain is the need for change, this applies to curly hair care too. Curly hair textures more so during the winter. In the Middle East, we typically experience a lower degree of humidity resulting in less moisture in the air which heightens the chances of curly hair becoming more prone to dryness. The weather change, particularly the level of humidity experienced has both pros and cons, nonetheless maintaining healthy curly hair in the Middle East during the winter requires intentionality and the ability to adjust your haircare regimen.
Though, winter in the GCC, in particular the UAE may not see snow fall or below freezing temperatures as seen in the West. What is recorded is often a drastic drop in temperatures from peaks of 50 degrees Celsius and upwards in the summer to lows of 15-16 degrees from November through to April.
 
Throughout this blog post we will detail considerations for curly haircare during the winter and how to adapt your washday regimen to suit the change in climate.
It is very possible to achieve and maintain all you desire with your curly hair texture - definition, moisture and all round healthy hair in the winter season, if slight adjustments are made to your curly hair routine.
By default, curly hair is more prone to dryness and when it comes to the winter season this is only magnified. You may find your hair and scalp tend to become more dry due to the wind and dry air that evaporates the natural oils your scalp produces which gets passed down the length of your hair, thus increasing the appearance of dry, dull and lacklustre curls.
To mitigate dry, brittle strands during the winter it is important to consider the following:
1. Product Ingredients
The first 5 listed ingredients contribute to typically over 70% of the product. These ingredients will be the driving force behind a product’s ability to deliver moisture, repair or offer curl enhancement - definition, volume or elongation.
Even in the cooler months, it is of upmost importance to place greater focus on moisture rich products. The first step to hydration and moisture is through your cleanser. This means starting right from your cleansing product, moisturising ingredients are extremely important. Common moisturisers and emollients found in cleansers include Glyceryl stearate, Glycerin and Cocamidopropyl Betaine.
Below we have listed 3 superior conditioning agents to look for in your conditioners and stylers during the season to enable soft, supple and defined curls.
Ceramides
Ceramides are luxurious when added to curly hair products as it aids moisture retention by creating a light protective barrier, by way of repairing and strengthening the hair’s structure thus reducing the escape routes for moisture. Examples of potent, naturally derived ceramides include hemp seed oil, grapeseed oil which can be found in Inahsi Naturals Mango Avocado Restorative Hair Mask or Inches Conditioned by Healthy Hair Studio by Enitan.
Marshmallow Root
Marshmallow Root is a fantastic emollient which spans across more than skincare - to haircare too, specifically curly hair where minimising moisture loss is a key goal. This emollient contains a high mucilage content almost like a thickening agent, which helps to retain moisture in the hair thus leaving curls looking and feeling hydrated. The added bonus of this ingredient is in its ability to define curls with its glue like texture. This is one ingredient to look out for in your curl gels, creams and foams in the autumn-winter months.
Slippery Elm
Similar in consistency to Marshmallow root - a rich gel like substance also rich in mucilage, often found in conditioning products such as a curly girl holy grail Kinky Curly Knot Today, it has the ability to smoothen and repair the hair cuticle, aid moisture retention as well as quick detangling.
2. Regular moisture boosts
For curly hair, your wash day routine should be used as the main opportunity to restore moisture to your curls. However, we all have different moisture cycles, largely driven by porosity and moisture retention techniques. With this in mind if your typical moisture cycle is 3-4 days, you may find that your curls do not retain moisture for this length of time in the winter, to extend your moisture cycle ahead of your next wash day, incorporate use of refreshers as and when needed to give your curls that moisture boosting pick me up. Refreshers can also help tame frizz and restore curl definition without weighing them down and leading to product build up.
3. Maintain a regular wash day routine
Contrary to popular belief, regular cleansing of curly hair aids moisture momentum, provided you are using the right type of cleanser - one that is free of sulphates, parabens and mineral oils.
A weekly or bi weekly wash day will set you on track. Where you feel your curls are constantly dry ahead of each wash day, consider incorporating a co-wash into your routine to increase moisture impartation during the cleansing process.
Do not be afraid to use a clarifying shampoo once every 3-4 weeks, this works to improve your curls ability to retain moisture in the long run. Where you regularly use a number of styling products or sealants, build up will naturally occur. A clarifying shampoo will strip your curls of build up and thus allow your hair to receive that much needed moisture as your hair and scalp are unclogged.
Alternatively, you can opt for a hair detox to deeply cleanse your hair and scalp, removing flakes, dead skin and build up that weigh down curls. A hair detox is typically formulated with ingredients that clarify the scalp and strands whilst balancing moisture levels needed for curly hair. Look for a detox that contains ingredients such Bentonite or Kaolin Clay which contain clarifying properties to draw out impurities, excess oils, dead skin cells and debris without stripping your strands of moisture.
What you’ll get with a clay based detox is combination of cleansing and conditioning properties in one treatment.
4. Protective Styling
Another way to protect your curls from the harsh conditions created by the autumn/winter season is through the use of protective styling. Protective styling is almost self explanatory, however there are steps to be taken in order for the style to be truly protective from environmental aggressors. Style such as braids, twist, pineapples are considered protective as they keep the majority of the hair hidden by allowing moisture to be kept in tact and the most fragile parts of your curls - the ends tucked away and free from day to day manipulation and friction.
Before tucking away the ends of your curls in a protective style be sure to apply a sealant to prevent moisture evaporating too quickly. Couple this with satin or silk protection at night to reduce friction, moisture loss and breakage and your curls will thank you.
In conclusion, it is essential you adapt your curly hair routine for all seasons and climates to provide the best environment for your curls to thrive whilst maintaining good moisture levels - the baseline for healthy curls.
A curly hair winter routine that is perfect for dry, cooler weather includes one that incorporates protective styles, ceramide conditioners and ongoing weekly hydration. This will support maintenance of your curly hair in winter without the typical breakage seen.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/curly-hair-salons-dubai-uae

August 03, 2024•8 min read ★
Updated August 2025
Finding a salon that has your hair’s needs in mind is vital for your overall hair journey. Curly hair specifically has unique structural features and needs that must be viewed and treated differently to straight, less textured hair types. In particular the curly hair products used, right from the cleanser used to the treatment, moisturisers and stylers applied.
However, what is of greater importance is the healthy hair practices you adopt outside of the salon. Your hairstylist is not responsible for the health of your hair, you are through your daily practices.
How often should you visit a curly hair salon?
According to Hairdresser’s Journal, , the average woman visits the salon on average every 6 weeks for a standard trim, every 10 weeks for a colour treatment and twice per year for a special events. 
The average woman with textured hair visits a salon at best every 4 weeks, worst case once a quarter or semi-annually for a trim, this has been echoed in a Goodhousekeeping article titled “How often you need to get a haircut, according to your hair type, texture and length”.  
With these timeframes in mind, you need to consider what you are doing to ensure your salon visits are worthwhile and you achieve the curls you desire.
Curly Hair Salons in Dubai
The UAE is fortunate to have a number of salons that cater solely to curly hair. Part of our community includes senior stylists at the Top Curly hair salons in Dubai including:
Twist Curly Hair Salon 
Newly opened in the heart of Dubai, Twist Curly Hair Salon initially started out in their HQ in Moscow and have brought their curl magic here to the UAE. Located in Al Barsha, Dubai. We would highly recommend Senior stylist - Sara Kostandy.
Boho Salon 
Boho Salon is no newbie in UAE, initially established in Abu Dhabi. However, recently opened a second salon in Dubai, located in the heart of Arjan. Offering a range of treatments for both curly and non-textured hair types. With a clean, tranquil space, you are guaranteed to enjoy some self care time. 
 
Bouclé by missa
Missa is a renowed Dubai based curly hair stylist with over 5 years experience and one of the first stylists to specialise in Curl by Curl and Rezo Techniques in the GCC. To make a booking, please contact her via her facebook page. 
 
Trinity Hair Salon
Located in Arjan, Dubai. Whilst traditionally known for their specialism in blondes, balayage, and a broad range of hair extension techniques. They have recently added to their roster of curly hair techniques, including Senior Curly Hair Specialist, Fidaa Abou Ibrahim of Natural Curl by Fida.
FRQNCY
Also located in Arjan, Dubai. A recent addition to our list, this salon opened in 2025, taking a new and fresh spin on hair care services by creating a sanctuary for relaxation - the very essence of self care. They prioritise a nurturing, safe space and incorporate healing rituals into their treatments.
  
The Curl Therapy 
Located in Jumeriah Village Circle (JVC), this mom and daughter duo are known as one of the first curly hair salons in Dubai, founded by curly haired girls for curly haired girls.
These salons are well versed in making an assessment of the state of your curls and advising on the appropriate salon treatment whether that be a curl detox, hydration treatment, protein repair treatment or assisting you with curly cuts, trims, shaping or colour.
Located in Jumeirah Lake Towers/Pullman Hotel Dubai. It's speciality focuses on curl cuts, styling and restorative treatments to bring life, bounce and shine back to natural curls.
Whether you’re a salon goer or not. We believe you should follow some key healthy hair practices and principles if you are to have a successful healthy hair journey and see results with your haircare products alongside your salon visits.
1. Know your hair porosity – how quickly your hair absorbs water and moisture.
Ensure you keep up with regular wash days. We recommend a wash day every 7- 10 days. With one in every four washes including a clarifying shampoo or cleanser to strip the hair of build-up, toxins, debris and dead skin. We have a range of cleansers available including moisturising, clarifying and chelating cleansers.
2. Incorporate a conditioning treatment into your regimen, this can be via:
3. Observe your moisture retention cycles – this simply refers to how long your hair can go before drying out after your recent wash day.
Imparting moisture in your strands is the easy part, given the nature of curly, coily and kinky hair textures and the need for regular moisture, your moisturising technique can ensure you can go several days without refreshing. If you’re new to your curly journey, this may appear unachievable at first, but with regular practice you will see an improvement in the health of your hair and your moisture retention cycle.
The goal is always to remoisturise your curls before they dry out, once your curls become dry, they are more prone to brittleness and breakage.
4. Stay Hydrated
Moisture and hydration starts from the inside, directly from the water we consume which feeds our entire body including the scalp. The scalp is where natural moisture through sebum production is released and travels from the root of your hair follicle down to the tip.
Particularly in warm climates such as the UAE and wider middle east, it is recommended you consume on average 1.5 – 2 litres of water per day. 
 
5. Eat a balanced diet and take the necessary supplements
Ensuring that your body is nourished with a variety of protein and iron rich foods is essential, as the quality and quantity of your hair strands depends on it. If you maintain a balanced diet yet still suffer from weak, brittle strands, we recommend you get some blood work done. Blood results will indicate whether you have any nutrient or vitamin deficiencies, thereafter you can take the necessary steps to rectify this for healthier hair growth at a follicular level. This is not just our recommendation, however the advice of experienced health care professionals, read what hair doctors have to say on this topic here. 
 
6. Protect your curls from the elements (friction, tension and external aggressors)
Ways to avoid friction on the hair shaft includes silk or satin protection at night, you can use a silk or satin bonnet or silk pillowcases. We recommend that if you opt for silk, you choose 100% pure mulberry silk which contains protein – this is what the hair fiber is naturally made up of and supports moisture retention. Reduced friction leads to curl pattern preservation, frizz prevention and reduced breakage caused by daily wear and tear from hair manipulation.
Additionally, use the right sunscreen for your hair during the summer months, some oils do provide a low degree of sun protection but what we are referring to here is uniquely formulated heat and thermal protectants which provide the hair fiber with a layer of protection that prevents moisture escaping and slows down the transfer of heat to the hair. Key ingredients in these products include PVP, Polymers and/or Wheat Protein. Why not try our summer favourite Mielle Mongongo Oil Thermal & Heat Protectant Spray?
Before you visit a curly hair salon
A pre poo (pre shampoo) treatment is a game changer for people with curly, coily or kinky hair textures, we recommend this ahead of every wash day as well as salon visit.
A pre poo treatment is designed to soften your strands, aid detangling and prime the hair with essential nutrients and protection before cleansing.
You maybe thinking, how does this make sense?
Did you know every time you cleansing your hair or wet it the hair shaft swells and the hair cuticle is raised? To minimise the negative effects of swelling a pre shampoo treatment particularly oils can infuse strength and provide a light protective barrier to the hair before being removed during the final wash. 
  
Consider incorporating a pre poo oil such as Ecoslay hot sauce pre poo or Cachos brazil ( now Rios curls) High Porosity Hair Elixir into your haircare regimen.
 
  
In summary, we believe it is essential to regularly visit your curly hair salon but your practices and regimen at home should not be neglected, as this can set you back on your healthy hair journey and ultimately mean money is wasted as you can only enjoy salon results for a few days post treatment. Remember to do your part and the results will show!
If you need assistance in building your curly hair regimen to sustain and enjoy a flourishing hair journey. Please do not hesitate to reach out to our team of curly hair experts who will provide appropriate recommendations for your hair type and hair concern, advise on the techniques and practices you should follow for real, continued and long lasting results.
Contact us
Whatsapp: +971 (0) 58 565 1076
Email: info@emersonhairandbeauty.com
Instagram: @emerson.beauty
FAQs
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/curly-hair-washing-shampooing

April 15, 2025•7 min read ★
If you’re naturally curly and live in the Middle East, particularly UAE or Saudi you’ll have most likely come across the term cowashing and tried it, possibly even wondered whether you’re doing it right. We’ve been there.
This blog post digs deeper into the term, highlights what cowashing is (and what it isn’t), myths and traps to avoid, and how to determine if or when cowashing is right for your curls, considering the UAE and Saudi climate and your broader lifestyle.
The backstory: History behind Cowashing
Whilst many believe Lorraine Massey coined the term “cowashing” as part of the Curly Girl Method, it has in actual fact been carried out for hundreds of years, particularly in Asian cultures, use of healing Ayurvedic based oils (conditioning agents) as a pre shampoo treatment rinsed with water as a first cleanse is extremely common.
Cowashing Myths
Another myth we must bust in the curly hair community is the notion that you don’t need a specific cowash product for cleansing your curls, you can simply use a regular rinse out conditioner and it performs the same way on the hair and scalp. This is completely false! On this blog post we explain the truth and the idea behind cowashing.
While a lot of marketing gimmicks exist in the beauty and haircare space more broadly - this is not one of them. A product labelled cowash will primarily contain conditioning agents along with at least one cleansing agent.
What cowashing means and what it doesn’t mean
Put simply, conditioner washing more commonly dubbed as “cowashing” is a gentle cleanser that has higher conditioning power than a standard shampoo which cleanses the hair and scalp yet on the other hand strips essential moisture in the process. Given curly hair’s natural craving for continuous moisture, standard shampoos particularly shampoos containing sulfates are highly discouraged as frequent and continuous use of sulfate based shampoos will only result in chronically dry and damaged curls.
Cowashing offers numerous benefits to curly hair textures, the primary benefit being its ability to mildly and gently cleanse whilst imparting moisture that penetrates while the hair cuticle is slightly lifted from cleansing. Cowashing doesn’t mean you grab your conditioner and lather it over your scalp and hair and rinse it out. Firstly, it’s important to highlight a regular conditioner is not meant to be applied to the scalp. Secondly, a conditioner doesn’t contain cleansing agents.
If you recall in our earlier posts, the first five ingredients listed make up the bulk of the product. A good natural, clean sulfate free cleanser for example, Ecoslay Peppermint Schnapps Hair Wash, this shampoo contains ingredients such as Plantain Peel Ash and Caprylhydroxamic acid as top ingredients, to gently exfoliate dead skin cells and contain antimicrobial properties which promote a healthy scalp environment.
Compare this with our top rated Co wash As I Am Coconut CoWash you will find top ingredients include Cetyl Alcohol known as a wonder worker for curly hair textures, it helps hydrate, improve texture and manageability whilst taming the feature many dislike - frizz. Another ingredient which tops this list, noted as the third ingredient is Cetrimonium Chloride a superb conditioning agent that makes detangling a breeze and smooths the hair cuticle to reduce static. When compared with a shampoo, a surfactant appears lower down the list which suggests lighter cleansing more conditioning. How this differs from a regular conditioner, conditioners do not contain cleansing agents
Shampoo and CoWash Usage Recommendations
The term cleanser is an overarching term that includes all cleansing products that can be used as part of your curly hair care routine from detoxes, co washes, gentle sulfate free shampoos to clarifying and chelating shampoos. If you want a clear guide to the differences between moisturising, clarifying, chelating cleansers and when to actually use each one, this post breaks it down clearly.
Focusing primarily on gentle sulfate free shampoos and co washes we recommend the following:
Cleansing Curly Hair – Expert Tips
As the saying goes, too much of anything is not good. This is most especially true for curly hair, balance is everything from moisture-protein balancing to balancing the scalp’s ph for an optimal scalp environment to cleansing. As curly hair is naturally more prone to dryness shampooing too frequently may further strip the moisture curly hair so desperately craves.
However, the good news is there are always options which include choosing whether to use a shampoo for curly hair or a cowash, this decision in the first instance should be based on an initial assessment of your hair’s condition and your lifestyle. If you find that your hair becomes dry more frequently due to swimming or regularly exercise, we highly recommend you alternate between a cowash and a shampoo, ensuring you cleanse at least twice a week.
It’s common to find that due to the hair moisture content in a co wash vs shampoo, there isn’t a need to follow up with a conditioner, you can co wash and proceed to priming your hair for styling. With a gentle sulfate free shampoo, whilst gentler than a regular shampoo, which is important for curly hair, it doesn’t contain a high moisture content as such conditioning should be the next step in your curly hair routine.
For fine or low porosity curls using a co wash regularly may lead to build up, as such this must be balanced with regular use of a detox or clarifying shampoo to allow moisture in and allow better product performance for curl enhancing stylers.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/deep-moisture-curly-hair-uae

September 16, 2025•8 min read ★
You know when people say I need a vacation from my vacation? That's how your curly hair feels after a Middle Eastern Summer. High temperatures, relentless humidity feels like it lasts for months on end, and your curls? They somehow have to navigate that battle between excess moisture vapour and drying air conditioning, leaving them in survival mode. By September, many women step into a curly hair salon in Dubai searching for one thing - repair!
People often associate curly hair repair with a simple wash, condition and a targeted treatment at the salon. We’re going to take it a step further to say - it will take more than one salon visit to repair your curls. As noted in our expert tips section of the best curly hair salons article, that health of your hair is ultimately determined by the healthy hair habits you adopt and maintain as part of your regimen, outside of the salon. 
From weekly use of a deep conditioner and leave in to your protective night care for your curls - this is where the recovery begins. Repairing your curls post summer requires you to adapt your curly hair routine, not just to hydrate but to focus on deep moisture using the right curly hair products in Dubai.
What Summer Really Does to Curly Hair
Summer in the Middle East has always been known for scorching temperatures, leading to discomfort, and you'll often find yourself wanting to minimise the time spent outdoors but yet still wanting to enjoy summer outdoors at beach clubs and rooftop restaurants. This same tug of war exists for your curls - trying to decide whether to let your curls loose and free or just throwing in the towel and slicking it back into a bun or a pineapple. Though we hope this wasn't the case for you this summer - Our Summer Curl Edit was curated for curls just like yours, built on porosity science so you can enjoy sculpted definition and long lasting hold in the height of summer and humidity - The reviews of this limited edition summer curl kit say it all.
Outside of commonly known environment aggressors that have a negative impact on curly hair such as hard water, air pollution, dry air and dry heat. During the summer, curly hair in Dubai, Abu Dhabi and the wider Middle East becomes more exposed to heat generated UV rays, one aggressor that is often overlooked.
Curly hair is structurally more fragile than straight strands. Over exposure to UV rays weakens and can significantly degrade the hair cuticle. This isn’t a claim, this is supported by  evidence in the article Effects of UV rays and particulate matter on hair porosity. 
A degraded hair cuticle increases hair porosity, causing curly hair to be more susceptible to brittleness and dryness. Once cuticle health is compromised, even the best curl creams and leave in conditioners struggle to completely hydrate and aid moisture retention. As sun generated UV rays alter cysteine bonds into cystic acid which weakens the hair by reducing its elasticity due to protein degradation. This degree of damage is not always visible to the human eye and doesn’t show up as frizz, but does become apparent with frayed, split ends. The cure is providing your curls with what they crave before damage becomes irreversible. 
Prevention and consistency are your curls armour: start with a gentle clarifying shampoo for curly hair to give your curls a clean slate, followed by a moisture rich regimen which delivers a cycle of deep moisture, strength and repair. A one off hydrating treatment at a curly hair salon in Dubai will not deliver lasting repair but regular balanced moisture - protein infusions beyond the hair’s surface will unlock long lasting hydration and stronger curls. 
Why Deep Moisture Is Essential For Curly Hair Repair
In the curly hair community, moisture and hydrating are often used interchangeably incorrectly. They are not the same and one cannot exist without the other - Moisture doesn’t exist without the first step of hydration. Hydration is a moisture anchor and is made available through water based formulas that quench the surface of curly strands.
This is why a spritz of a hydrating refresher, may temporarily revive definition but cannot meet the deeper structural needs of curly hair, particularly in the Middle East climate. This is also why we recommend a form of conditioning treatment after cleansing. Real moisture that penetrates the hair cortex is only made possible through a deep conditioner.
The benefits of deep conditioning curly hair:
- Increased moisture retention
- Increased hair elasticity and bounce
- Reduced static halo frizz
- Increased natural shine
- Balanced hair pH
When deep moisture becomes an integral part of your curly hair routine, your curls become stronger and more resilient to handle environmental aggressors and remain healthy through every season.
If you're not sure where to start with choosing the right conditioner for your curls, discover our range of moisturising conditioning treatments.
Signs Your Curls Are Craving Deep Moisture
It's easy to miss the signals your curls are sending if your regimen is fixated on your curl type and achieving the best styling results. Curls that are frequently nourished and moisturised naturally deliver better styling results. Where heat, hard water and humidity are daily realities, recognising what your curls need early on is the first step to real curly hair repair. Signs to watch for:
- Chronic Dryness Despite Regular Product Use - If your curls feel brittle or straw like even after applying a leave in conditioner or curl cream, this is a sign that curls are screaming for a clean slate. It's also a deeper signal that you are in need of a deep conditioner for curly hair. Brittle, straw like curls typically points to an imbalance - too much protein or clogged strands where there has been heavy product use (back to back) and your curls need a reset by using clarifying shampoo.
- Stubborn Frizz - The occasional frizz is completely normal but if you notice ongoing halo frizz or undefined strands, it means your curls are struggling to retain moisture. Ensure moisture rich products are included in your routine along with strong hold products. Using just a strong hold curl defining gel will mask the problem.
- Lack of Curl Definition - Curls that are flat, limp and frizzy are an indicator of structural weakness. Often caused by overexposure to hard water, UV rays increasing porosity, resulting in curls that cannot hold moisture or definition. The path to repairing curly hair includes both moisture retention and momentum through moisture rich curly hair products.
- Split Ends and Breakage - Frayed ends are an obvious sign of dehydrated curls, where you begin to see tangles form quickly, your curls are more fragile, this points to lost curl elasticity. The only way to combat this is to build a regimen that includes regular deep conditioning treatments that offers both essential moisture and protein to rebuild strength.
Post Summer Curly Hair Routine: How To Repair and Hydrate Curls
Repairing dry parched curls following a Middle Eastern summer required moisture momentum - this simply means a consistent cycle of moisture rich product layer, ensure you do not wait before your curls dry out before remoisturising, its key to understand your porosity in order to determine how much moisture your curls need and how regularly it needs it. Think of your curly hair products as your two-fold armour to prevent and protect - from dryness, frizz and damage.
Step 1: Reset With A Clarifying Shampoo
A clarifying shampoo for curly hair gently removes the weeks of product build up, chlorine and mineral deposits from hard water, creating the perfect foundation for moisture to absorb and penetrate the hair shaft again.
Step 2: Restore With Deep Moisture
Next step following a clarifying wash is a deep conditioner for curly hair at least once week. Once moisture momentum has been built and your curls retain moisture for longer, the frequency can be reduced to every 10-14 days. This goes beyond surface hydration that a curl refresher offers by penetrating the cortex and restoring moisture, elasticity and strength from the inside out. When your curls feel dry, brittle or unmanageable, this is the treatment that will bring them back to life.
Step 3: Lock in Hydration With A Leave In Conditioner
A well formulated leave-in conditioner provides ongoing hydration and primes the curls for styling. This step ensure smoother and more manageable strands that are less prone to halo frizz.
Step 4: Define and Protect with Curl Creams
Seal in the moisture with a curl defining cream or gel designed to keep curls soft, defined and frizz free for longer whilst defending against rapid moisture loss. This is especially key for high porosity hair.
Step 5: Consistency is Key
The biggest mistake many individuals with textured hair make is thinking moisture can be restored with a spritz of a refresher or one off moisturising treatment. True curly hair repair comes from committing to a regimen that priorities moisture, repair and strength at least weekly.
This is exactly why we curate edits like the Summer Curl Edit and why we'll continue to introduce limited edition curations that targets specific curly hair challenges as the seasons change.
In the Middle East, where curly hair requires a little more TLC, your best defence is a moisture rich curly hair routine built on balance and consistency. Deep moisture isn't just a treatment is the foundation of breakage resistant, frizz free curls.
FAQs
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/diet-for-healthy-curly-hair

February 27, 2025•8 min read ★
TABLE OF CONTENTS
- Diet and Hair
- Healthy Foods for Curly Hair
- Best Vitamins for Curly Hair
 
- Nurturing Your Curls
 
- Conclusion
- FAQs
Diet and Hair
Diet plays a crucial role in our overall health, including our hair health. Naturally, a healthy diet helps strengthen hair and keep it shiny. Moreover, what you eat could help you keep your locks or lose them. Not enough nutrients could lead to hair loss or damage.
There is a great deal of foods that promote hair growth and shine, such as foods to boost curly hair health, for instance. Fatty acids, particularly Omega-3s, play an important role in the health of the skin, nails, and hair. It’s highly recommended to eat Omega-3-rich foods every day. The right foods can be good for your curls, but some genetic factors can also have an impact on your health.
Healthy Foods for Curly Hair
Eating well is a game changer for curl health. A good diet for curly hair includes protein, iron and vitamins that enhance strand strength. These food for healthy curly hair keep yours curls resilient and shiny.
A well- balanced curly hair growth diet fuels you follicles and boosts hydration from within.
There are many contributing factors to strong, fabulous locks, including lifestyle, products, and avoiding chemical treatments. Nonetheless one of the most overlooked factors of healthy curls is diet. So, what are the best foods for curly hair health? Let’s find out. 
Omega-3s
The fatty acids in Omega-3 for curly hair are integral in the structure of the hair shaft, the natural oils that coat the hair and scalp, and the scalp’s cell membranes. Some of the best sources of Omega-3 include the following:
- Salmon
- Trout
- Mackerel
- Char
- Anchovies
- Sardines
- Herring
 
Moreover, there are vegetarian sources of Omega-3s, including:
- Walnuts
- Flaxseeds
- Pecans
- Almonds
- Canola
- Soy nuts
- Chia seeds
- Soybean oil
 
Iron Rich Protein
Hair is predominantly made of protein. A diet with low protein could make strands break easily and look dull, which causes split ends, making your curls look frizzier. Iron delivers oxygen to the hair shaft, keeping it strong and healthy. Too low iron levels could lead to anaemia that eventually could lead to hair loss. 
The best sources of protein-rich foods for curly hair include:
- Fish
- Chicken
- Pork
- Beef
- Eggs
 
Consider organic, lean sources of fish and meat that are low in mercury. For vegans, several foods contain iron, such as:
- Dark leafy greens
- Lentils
- Kidney beans or iron-fortified tofu or cereal
- soy
 
Nonetheless, it’s also important to look for plant sources for iron, sources that are abundant with Vitamin C to help for better absorption. Try pairing chickpea salad and spinach with oranges, peppers, or cantaloupe to get the most out of the meal. 
Best Vitamins for Curly Hair
Certain vitamins are consequential for natural hair growth and health. Moreover, these vitamins contain nutrients for stronger curls. 
Vitamin C
Crucial for healthy hair and growth because Vitamin C produces collagen, a protein that provides structure to the skin, hair, and nails. Furthermore, it can also help absorb iron from plant-based foods. It also acts as an antioxidant, which is great for protecting hair from damage caused by free radicals. Foods rich in Vitamin C include lemons, oranges, strawberries, bell peppers, kiwis, and spinach. Vitamin C supplements also boost collagen production which helps keep hair hydrated. 
Vitamin D3
For overall health, including hair, Vitamin D3 is an essential vitamin. It helps regulate the maintenance and growth of the hair follicles. Lack of Vitamin C is linked to thinning hair, breakage, and alopecia. Foods rich in Vitamin D3 include cod liver oil, salmon, and egg yolks. Additionally, it’s helpful to supplement your diet with high-quality Vitamin D3 supplements to support hair health and prevent deficiency. 
Vitamin B12
This vitamin is vital for hair health because it helps create red blood cells that carry oxygen to hair follicles. Enough oxygen levels and nutrients are important for healthy growth. Moreover, Vitamin B12 helps in maintaining correct nerve function.  A healthy nervous system helps regulate hormone levels, as well as support keratin production. Keratin is an essential protein for strong, healthy hair. Foods rich in Vitamin B12 include fish, dairy, meat, and eggs. A multivitamin with high Vitamin B12 helps boost red blood cell count, promotes and strengthens hair growth, and provides a boost of natural energy. 
Zinc
Because zinc helps produce new hair cells, as well as maintain healthy hair follicles, it’s an important vitamin for hair health. Moreover, it helps regulate hormones that could affect hair growth. This nutrient promotes hair growth and prevents hair loss by regulating the hormone levels. Zinc also promotes wound healing that supports the health of the scalp and hair follicles. Foods rich in zinc include beef, oysters, pumpkin seeds, chicken, and chickpeas. Look for a multivitamin with a bioavailable form of Zinc. 
Magnesium
Magnesium helps regulate the different body functions, including the maintenance of strong bones and teeth, and the production of hormones and enzymes. It also helps in regulating androgens that affect hair growth. This nutrient can help promote hair growth prevent hair loss and promote keratin production. Foods rich in magnesium include green leafy vegetables, like spinach, nuts, whole grains, and seeds. Magnesium Malate is one of the best forms of Magnesium for hair growth and supports overall health. 
Nurturing Your Curls
When it comes to hair growth, you do not only need curly hair superfoods, you also have to nurture your curls with love. Keep in mind that those beautiful, bouncy curls deserve all the attention and love. With the right care, you can encourage length retention and healthy growth. 
- 
Moisture is KeyHydration should be your top priority since curly hair tends to be naturally drier than other hair types. Invest in a good leave-in conditioner or a curl cream to lock in moisture. Furthermore, you can seal that moisture with an oil, such as argan or jojoba oil. This creates a barrier that locks in hydration, particularly during colder months.
 
- 
Gentle DetanglingPatience is key to detangling curly hair. Gently work through your knots with a wide-tooth comb or your fingers, starting from the ends to the roots. It’s best to detangle your hair when it’s wet and saturated with conditioner.
 
- 
Regular TrimmingWhile it may seem counterproductive, regular trims are essential to prevent split ends from climbing towards the hair shaft, causing more damage. Trim curly hair every 8-12 weeks to keep it healthy. Choose a stylist who specializes in curly hair growth.
- 
Nutrition for Healthy Curls MatterBecause curly hair growth begins from within, a balanced diet is a must. One of the curly hair diet tips that are known to work include foods that are rich in the vitamins mentioned above, as well as Biotin which can contribute to healthier hair. Drink plenty of water, and eat ample amounts of vegetables and fruits.
 
Conclusion
Maintaining your curly hair takes patience, care, and lots of love. Moreover, you can greatly benefit from the numerous curly hair diet tips online. Keep in mind that every curl is unique, and what works for one does not always mean it will work for you too. Experiment with many curly hair growth tips and great curly hair products to find what makes your curls the happiest.
FAQs
1) What food is good for my curls?
In general, diet plays a huge role in beauty. When it comes to foods for strong shiny curls, include those rich in protein, iron and antioxidants.
2) Does diet affect curly hair?
Definitely. Diet plays a key role in the overall health of your curly hair. Poor and unbalanced diet could lead to poor hair health.
3) Does Omega 3 for curly hair work?
Yes, Omega-3 does wonders for your curly hair. Keep in mind that what you eat can help you from losing your locks. If you’re not into Omega-3 foods, you better start now.
4) Does omega-3 make my curly hair thicker?
Omega-3 for curly hair has demonstrated promising benefits for hair thickness and growth because it’s rich in fatty acids. Furthermore, these fatty acids found in fish oil provide the essential nutrients that nourish hair follicles.
5) What’s important for curly hair?
Keep curly hair moisturized since it tends to be drier than other kinds of hair. Condition it all over, not just the ends by applying a thick conditioner after washing. Apply leave-on conditioners to help with moisturization.
6) Is Vitamin E good for my curls?
Vitamin E is not only good for your skin, it’s also great for overall hair health. It contains a natural oxidant that protects their hair from cellular damage. It’s specifically beneficial for protecting curly hair from the daily environment aggressors.
7) Are eggs good for curls?
Eggs are great sources of protein, and protein-rich foods for curly hair included in the diet support healthy, strong curls. Nevertheless, do not use raw eggs on your hair because the molecules are much too big to be absorbed in the hair shaft. It’s better to consume eggs as part of your diet.
8) Is milk good for curly hair?
On its own, milk does not have a big impact on your curly hair. Nonetheless, when taken as part of your balanced diet, it’s a good source of vitamins and minerals. Coconut or rice milk is terrific since they have strengthening and moisturizing properties. 
 
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/diy-hydrating-masks-nourish-your-curls-naturally

April 07, 2025•11 min read ★
TABLE OF CONTENTS
- The Beauty of Curly Hair
- The Importance of Nourishing Curly Hair
- Curly Hair Mask
- Conclusion
- FAQs
The Beauty of Curly Hair
The beauty of curly hair lies in its unique texture, every bend, every twist, every kink has a voice, one of resilience and beauty.
Though global beauty standards have made strides in becoming more inclusive. In 2025, we can’t say with total confidence that it’s not just viewed as a momentary hair “trend” to follow, we still need to see a prolonged representation of natural curls and not curls that are styled to achieve Hollywood curls for example.
Natural curls are homage to the helixes in our DNA. While some still view natural curly hair as challenging, natural curls can be a source of empowerment, confidence and beauty when cared for and embraced wholeheartedly.
The Importance of Nourishing Curly Hair
To maintain healthy curls frequent nourishment is crucial. Due to the unique hair structure curly hair textures have, the bends, kinks and swirls make it naturally more prone to breakage and dryness than other hair types. For this reason, you will find your curls crave ongoing moisture, as moisture from the scalp doesn’t always make it way around every bend and kink in individual hair strands. You’ll often hear the term “moisture-protein balance” thrown around in the curly hair community, this balance is required to prevent damage, maintain moisture, and promote elasticity, the key to defined curls that display a healthy bounce. Whilst it’s easy to admire your favourite influencer or celebrities styling results, it’s important to remember the foundation of vibrant, healthy curls start with a healthy scalp. 
Proper scalp care is the first step to overall hair health, and failure to do so could lead to a plethora of issues, from flakiness and dryness to chronic hair loss.
Tips to Nourish Natural Curls
Whether you’ve always rocked natural curls or have just recently transitioned from chemically treated hair, caring for your curls is paramount. Be sure to follow the below tips to ensure that your beautiful ringlets remain healthy and nourished from the inside out.
- Conditioning
Typically, natural curls are very dry and prone to breakage. Hence the need for frequent conditioning through use of rinse-out conditioner and a leave-in conditioner to help replenish and restore moisture and protein which naturally erodes over time. If you’re just starting out on your natural hair journey, we recommend conditioning weekly or bi weekly if you’re an avid swimmer. As your hair’s health improves this can be reduced to fortnightly.
- Limit the Heat
Heat is a double edged sword, on one hand the use of heat through steam is a great additional to your hair regimen as it opens up the hairs cuticles to allowed for deeper penetration of conditioning treatments, particularly important for low porosity hair types. On the other hand excessive use of heat stylers can destroy and damage your natural curl pattern which often cannot be repaired with products along and could result in needing to start your natural hair journey from scratch. Whilst a diffusers is a heat based drying tool, on a low/cool setting this works incredibly well for curly hair types to preserve the hairs integrity whilst speeding up drying time. If you occasionally choose to use a heat based styler ensure you utilise a heat protectant which will help to slow down the transfer of heat to the hair shaft.
- Select Appropriate Styling Products
Styling products like gels, mousses, or sprays are fantastic curl enhancer and should be used to support your styling goals and work with your natural curl pattern and not against. Ensure you’re selecting stylers based on your hair porosity. Low porosity curls can suffer from build up similar to fine curls, start with less product and add more if required. To maintain a natural bounce, avoid heavy products to avoid your curls being weighed down. High porosity curls due to a more open cuticle can enjoy the benefits from slightly heavier without the added weight. If you’re unsure as to whether a styler may work for you, why not try a travel size before committing to full size. You can shop travel size products on our webstore here.
- Not All Oils Are Created Equal
Oils are a great way to seal your curls to prevent rapid moisture loss, some oils offer hydrating properties in addition to sealing for example Jojoba Oil, others support reinforcement in the hair shaft, Almond Oil is a great example as it helps to fill the gaps in the hair cuticle.
- Protective Styling
Other ways to enhance your natural curl pattern include protective styles that can be undone at a later stage - on Day 3/4 for example to reveal luscious curls. Take two strand twists, you can maximize your curls without using heat. Separate your hair into sections, whilst wet and apply a curl creme or twisting butter of choice and twist each section, allow it to dry and unravel either same day or days after styling to reveal juicy, defined curls.
- Hands Off
We all have a natural tendency to periodically play with our hair whether it affects our ability to see in a given moment or just out of habit. Did you know hands in hair syndrome, as it’s often referred, is considered a form of hair manipulation and can lead to friction resulting in unwanted frizz, breakage and split ends. We highly recommend only manipulating your hair when wet.
- Feed your Hair and Body
It’s often said you can’t outdo a bad diet and the same is true for healthy hair, you must feed and nourish your hair from the inside out. Stocking up on fruits, vegetables, protein-rich fish, nuts and eggs are essential to a balanced diet, which goes well to support hair health right at follicular level. This along with the right products will lead to both flourishing hair and skin.
Curly Hair Mask
A curly hair mask is generally considered a more potent form of conditioner. It’s designed to be left on the hair longer to allow the ingredients to penetrate deeply and nourish hair strands. Additionally, you’ll find that masks are more concentrated treatments that provide intense repair and hydration to curly hair, helping to de-frizz, strengthen, and restore healthy shine and bounce.
Benefits of Curly Hair Masks
As curly hair masks are concentrated products, you’ll find they are typically formulated to address a particular hair need or concern and this is more often than not included in the product name, for example, Curls Blueberry Bliss Reparative Mask – the focus here is repair and the product ingredients should support or promote repair of the hair. Other types of curly hair masks include, smoothing, strengthening, moisturizing.
- Smoothing
Smoothing masks are formulated to smooth the hair shaft, tame frizz, and seal split ends. Be sure to watch out for the inclusion of silicones which have the ability to make hair appear smoother by creating a film around the hair shaft, which can be beneficial temporarily, though, regular and excessive use of silicone heavy products can cause build up over time, leaving the hair dry and brittle as moisture is not able to penetrate.
- Hydration
Hydration masks are designed to impart and infuse much needed moisture and hydration back into the hair, penetrating beyond the hair cuticle. Ingredients such as deeply penetrating oils, including macadamia, jojoba, shea, avocado, or coconut oil are often found in the formulation along with hydrating humectants such as aloe vera leaf juice, marshmallow root to name a few.
- Strengthening
If you suffer from weak or brittle strands a strengthening hair mask is one for you. Designed to fortify the hair shaft to make it more breakage resistant therefore promoting better hair elasticity.
- Damage Repair and Protect
If hair is brittle, dry, or frizzy it’s a sign to upgrade your haircare stash to include a concentrated reparative mask that will help build back what the hair was naturally designed to have – protein and fill any gaps found in the hair cuticle.
DIY Curly Hair Masks
Whilst DIY is often advertised as a cost-effective and simple solution to bring back radiance and life to curly tresses, they may not have any long lasting effects especially if not formulated correctly. The key is correct formulation, from ingredients to quantities and ph levels. If you are to make a DIY hair mask as you start out on your natural hair journey, ensure you make use of natural ingredients and tailor treatments to the unique needs of your hair.
With a DIY hair mask for curly hair, knowing which ingredients contain the level of potency and penetrative ability is necessary. Some of the best ingredients for DIY curly hair masks include the following:
- Avocado
Rich in vitamins and fatty acids, avocado is a powerhouse hydration ingredient. It penetrates the hair shaft, enhancing shine and providing moisture.
- Coconut Oil
Known for deep conditioning properties, coconut oil helps minimize protein hair loss, making it the ideal choice for maintaining healthy ringlets.
- Honey
A natural humectant that attracts hair moisture. Honey keeps hair smooth and hydrated. Also, it has antimicrobial properties that benefit the scalp.
- Banana
Not only is banana delicious, but it’s also beneficial to the hair. It contains vitamins and potassium that help soften and moisturize curls.
- Yogurt
Packed with lactic acid and protein, yogurt strengthens and moisturizes hair as it adds shine. It’s also great for controlling frizz.
- Aloe Vera
Aloe Vera is known for its soothing properties and is terrific for hydration. It helps calm the scalp and provides moisture without weighing down your hair.
- Olive Oil
A rich source of vitamin E, olive oil strengthens and nourishes hair and provides excellent moisture. Furthermore, it can promote healthy shine and prevent split ends.
DIY Curly Hair Mask and Storage
Curly hair products unless specified to be used on the scalp, should focus on the hair shaft, particularly mid shaft to ends. The same is true for curly hair masks, particularly if it has not been scientifically formulated, only apply it to the length of the hair, avoiding the scalp to prevent unwanted yeast, product build up and scalp related irritation.
We recommend allowing your DIY mask to sit for 15-20 mins whilst covered with a shower cap or heat cap for added penetrative power. After this period, rinse with cool water to help seal the hair cuticle and enjoy the moisture boosting benefits, most especially if you have dry curls.
Curly hair DIY masks contain perishable food ingredients with no added preservatives, as such we do not recommend storage beyond the day of application, as this can lead to bacterial growth leaving room for scalp related issues and potential damage to your curls. With warmer climates in Dubai and the wider Middle East the risk of bacterial growth is heightened.
Conclusion
A DIY hair mask for curly hair textures targeting hydration is a great start, it can be a fun part of the journey towards rediscovering, loving and understanding your natural curls. Though, if your curls are need of intense repair and nourishment, explore our collection of best selling masks and deep conditioners tailored for healthy curls in the middle eastern heat here.
FAQs
1) How often should you use a curly hair mask?
Begin by applying it once a week after cleansing instead of using a regular conditioner. Thereafter, the frequency can be adjusted to fortnightly subject to your hairs needs and your lifestyle.
2) What are the benefits of a curly hair mask?
A homemade hair mask for curly hair can provide an intense nourishing treatment to help hydrate, strengthen, de-frizz, and restore damage. However, it’s important to note that without the correct ingredients and formulation method you may only enjoy short term, superficial benefits from a DIY.
We do not recommend a DIY mask in place of products that are specifically formulated for textured hair.
3) Can a homemade hair mask for curly hair help hair growth?
Subject to the ingredients contain in the hair mask to support hair strength, length retention the second component of healthy hair growth is possible. Ingredients such as Rosemary, Fermented Rice Water Extract, Fenugreek, Hibiscus, Stinging Nettle and others are scientifically proven to strengthen and fortify the hair shaft.
4) Why is using a hair mask important?
Regular use of hydrating curly hair masks can boost the hair texture by making it shiner, smoother, and more manageable.
5) Can a homemade hair mask for curly hair be applied on the scalp?
We recommend you do not apply conditioners or masks to the scalp. It’s the hair shaft that needs conditioning not your scalp. Applying conditioners to the scalp can lead to itchiness and other scalp related conditioners
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/embrace-your-curls-lets-start-at-the-birthplace-of-it-all

December 28, 2023•2 min read ★
Scalp is the birth place of hair. If kept in proper condition, it will provide an optimal environment for the follicles to produce quality hair.
Let's start with the basics:
- The scalp is made up of 5 layers
- Works to maintain skin moisture levels and acts as a barrier that defends the body from foreign irritation.
- Top layer (epidermis aka skin) is ~ 50 cells thick and is the layer we encounter and work with on a daily basis.
The scalp like any other part of the skin needs to be able to breathe.
Just as pores on the face can become clogged, hair follicles can also experience obstruction. You may be thinking but my scalp gets dry I need to apply some product or I want my hair to grow so I need to stimulate it with growth oils and massages right? 
You are correct!....However..
You are correct!....However..
Scalp dryness is an issue many people face. Although your scalp releases natural oil (sebum). Sebum production rates are controlled by hormones and therefore fluctuate over time.
Did you know women of some ethnicities, specifically women of colour genetically have a slower rate of sebum production?
For those that product normal amounts of sebum. the natural bends and kinks that with textured hair prevent it from spreading easily through the hair.
The proper way to hydrate the scalp and stimulate natural sebum is through frequent cleansing of the scalp and use of water based scalp serums if need in between wash days.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/hair-growth-dubai-uae

August 30, 2024•8 min read ★
There are numerous hair growth oils and hair growth serums available in the UAE and wider GCC. However, it is not always easy to determine what hair growth products are actual worth the hype!
Have you fallen victim to market gimmicks such as “This is your secret potion to magical hair growth” or “Grow your hair in 3 weeks with this magical hair growth serum” or “Apply this hair growth oil twice a day and watch your hair growth double in 30 days”? Does any of this sound familiar? Trust us, we have all fallen for these marketing tag lines!
Hair Loss Market Stats
According to Mordor Intelligence, the Hair Loss Treatment Market is said to reach $2.05bn in 2024 and grow by approximately 8.08% to reach $3.03bn by the end of 2029. This is clear evidence that the market for hair loss/hair growth treatments is HUGE! 
Before we dig into this subject let’s start by understanding what hair growth actually is. Whist most people understand that new hair growth emerges from the scalp, there is not enough attention paid to firstly the quality of the hair strand, and secondly how that new growth translates into an overall increase in the length of the hair strand. 
To put simply, visible hair growth is two fold - first - emergence from the scalp and second -  retention of the length of the hair. It’s impossible to see growth results without the two.
The baseline for hair growth
Research tells us that our hair grows by approximately half an inch every month, which translates to 6 inches a year. What we as consumers often fail to recognise is that this statistic is underpinned by a number of assumptions including, nutrient and vitamin intake, stable iron, zinc and magnesium levels, a varied diet, minimal stress levels, the list could go on.  Whilst it’s a good starting point, it’s not guaranteed, particularly if you do not adopt healthy hair practices - a requirement for the second aspect of visible hair growth - length retention.
If this is our base case for standard hair growth 1/2 inch a month, how do we minimise hair loss such that we can achieve our hair growth potential. 
Let’s look at some of the root causes of hair loss. Primary drivers of hair loss include and are not limited to:
- Hormonal imbalance
- Stress
- Vitamin deficiencies
- Dietary changes
- Poor sleeping patterns
- Tension or friction caused by repeated rubbing of the hair against harsh, non silk or satin materials.
Hair loss can be extremely frustrating and can put a dent in one’s self esteem, particularly when it’s prolonged.
When looking for hair loss solutions it’s important to recognise that any of the above could be a root cause, observing any changes in these key areas will enable you to ensure your internal function is at its optimal to complement external solutions. 
They should not be viewed in isolation both internal and external factors work holistically together to maximise your hair growth potential. 
If you’re ready to take your hair growth to the next level and experience real results, follow our recommendation of a holistic approach as we will prescribe below:
Internal factors that support hair growth
Ensure you get your vitamin and nutrient levels checked. Why is this important? 95% of the hair structure is made up of a protein called keratin. Keratin is derived from a combination of amino acids. Keratin development can be supported through consumption of protein, Vitamin A, Vitamin C, Iron, Folate and Biotin.
The best way to check your vitamin and nutrient levels is through blood work. Request this at your local clinic or hospital. 
Complementary to this is a need for a balanced and varied diet. It is essential to include protein such as lean meat and fish, eggs , leafy greens and a powerhouse of complex carbohydrates in your diet which offers your body a wide range of nutrients to support strong and healthy hair growth.
Stress, this is always a tough one to tackle, when we think about its impact on hair growth and the associated loss. Stress can be triggered by many different things which sometimes are out of our control. What can be controlled is our response to which such triggers, this is where fitness activities can be beneficial by supporting the release of endorphins to counteract stress. Massage therapy has been used for centuries as a way to reduce the effects of stress on the body.
External factors that support hair growth
Hair growth oils and hair growth serums have dominated the hair loss industry for years, however what many brands fail to emphasise is that these products should be used as part of a wider haircare regimen focused on hair growth. If you do not make use of the right cleansers which cleanse and provide stimulation at a follicular level or conditioners with ingredients to support strong hair strands to enable length retention. How will visible hair growth be possible?
Using the right cleansers is crucial if you want to reap the benefits of the stimulation provided by hair growth oils. The right cleanser will strip away build up and not add to existing build up which further clogs the hair follicles. Cleansers loaded with sulfates and silicones may give you a temporary feel of healthy hair, however this is done by masking the hair shaft with an artificial layer to smoothen and align the hair cuticles.
If your cleanser isn’t doing the job, how can your follicles absorb the nutrients provided by the oils? You will simply be adding more product to existing build up. Regardless of the frequency of application of hair growth oils, you will not see results until you’ve got this step right.
We recommend use of both a gentle cleanser such as Innersense Hydrating Hair Bath and a clarifying cleanser (once a month) such as Inahsi Soothing Mint Clarifying Shampoo, to provide your hair and scalp with a clean slate, free from build up and ready to receive the nutritional goodness provided by hair growth oils.
Secondly, indulge in regular conditioning treatments such as Treluxe Soothe and Restore Ultra Moisturising Deep Conditioner. This step is non negotiable if you want to see length retention. Regular conditioning treatments will infuse moisture and protein into your hair shaft to support stronger and more manageable hair.
Let’s assume you get these first two steps right, do you then proceed to applying your hair growth oil as you deem necessary? No, we advise you to pause and review the quality of the ingredients in your hair growth oil.
The first 5 ingredients are key, as we have mentioned in previous blog posts, however in the case of growth oils, it still applies but in a slightly different manner. A carrier oil will make up the bulk of the products to deliver the more potent ingredients in a way the hair and scalp can absorb without irritation or inflammation. Examples of carrier oils include Jojoba, Almond, Avocado, Grapeseed, Argan, Castor, Black Seed, Olive just to name a few.
Now let’s move on to the more potent stuff that will enable you to increase growth at a follicular level. We often talk about the benefits of the Ayurvedic herbs to our clients, all of whom have trusted us on their hair growth journey and have seen significant growth results in as little as 6 weeks!
Here are some of our favourite hair growth ingredients:
• Rosemary - known to prevent hair loss, thus aid length retention.
• Horsetail - Improves blood circulation and restores strength and elasticity in the hair shaft
• Fenugreek - Rebuilds and repairs the hair follicle and naturally thickens the hair.
• Amla - Nourishes and regulates the root of the hair to promote thicker hair.
• Evening Primrose Oil - A underrated gem for stimulating hair growth.
• MSM - promotes growth by strengthening the hair bonds at a follicular level.
• Sulfur - Keratin what the hair is largely made up of has a high concentration of Sulfur, a natural strengthening agent to reduce hair loss caused by weak and brittle strands.
• Nettle - Also rich in Sulfur, prevents hair loss and nourishes and regenerates the hair follicle.
• Burdock Root - A natural thickening agent that combats hair loss and rejuvenates a stronger follicle environment for better quality strands to emerge.
At Emerson, we’ve spent extensive time, researching and testing products to curate a range of hair growth systems available here in the UAE. Our hair growth systems include many of the ingredients noted above in order to provide you with the right nourishment your hair and scalp needs to see REAL hair growth results. Shop our range of hair growth systems today, here!
To summarise, we come back to our initial question, are hair growth oils and hair growth serums magic potions? The answer to this is they are not when used in isolation of a holistic hair growth regimen. To see real and long lasting hair growth results you need more than just a hair growth oil.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/hair-porosity-curly-hair-routine

August 18, 2025•10 min read ★
If you’ve built your curly hair routine around your curl type or curl pattern alone, your routine isn’t truly effective. The key factor that determines how your curls behave - porosity. Understanding this key factor is a game changer when choosing the right curly hair products and building a regimen suited to your climate.
Take Dubai and the Middle East more generally as an example, moisture-protein balanced products are key, particularly in heightened humidity - finding the best curly hair products that penetrate the cortex and seal the cuticle properly to defend against excess cuticle swelling that leads to frizz is essential.
But as we transition from peak summer humidity to cooler, drier months, understanding your curls' porosity becomes even more critical. Seasonal changes mean that products that worked well in July may leave your curls dry and brittle in October. This is why our seasonal edits remain rooted in curl science and tested for porosity.
This blog post covers:
- Curl Type Vs Porosity
- Low, Medium, High Porosity
- Science Backed Hair Porosity Test
- How To Determine Your Hair Porosity
- How To Build A Curly Hair Routine Based on Porosity
- Does Your Curl Type Actually Matter
Understanding the difference: Curl Type Vs Hair Porosity
Curl pattern is how curls look to the human eye, its visible shape. This can vary from loose waves (Type 2) to tight curls or coils (Type 3 and 4). Scientifically your curl pattern is determined by the cross sectional geometry of the hair follicle, whether it’s oval or round: round follicles typically produce straight hair strands and oval follicles produce curly to coily hair stands.
Hair porosity, on the other hand, is about performance. It’s a measure of how the hair responds to water and moisture, observed by how quickly it absorbs and how it retains it. This is a clear indicator of how your hair will respond to curly hair products.
If you’re new to Emerson, welcome!
We take a science backed approach to decoding curly hair which is proven and tested through experience. When we make statements like porosity matters more than your curl pattern, we mean it, and here’s why.
What Hair Porosity Means For Your Curly Hair Routine?
Have you ever tried to replicate a curly hair routine you saw an influencer follow on Instagram and TikTok, using the same products but your results just seem completely different despite having the same hair type? Or your results seem the same on day 1 but by Day 2 or 3 your curls are completely different? This is exactly where porosity comes in, it determines how your curls respond to products and your environment.
Once you discover your hair porosity, you can build a regimen around the best curly hair products for your curls. In the next section of this post, we will guide you on how to build a curly hair routine.
Low, Medium, High Porosity: Learn the difference
Low porosity simply means your curls absorb moisture at a slower rate as the hair cuticles lay flat, it’s hard for hydration and moisture to enter and penetrate the hair shaft.
On the flip side, it does mean that once your curls do absorb moisture, it’s not so quick to lose it due to this flat cuticle nature.
Medium porosity means your curls absorb moisture neither too quick or too slow. This highlights that the cuticles are semi open (less tightly bound) which allows for optimal moisture flow into the hair shaft.
Though, medium porosity adapts well to seasonal changes, it is not immune to environmental factors that can lead to damage, frizz and breakage which can be masked in the early stages.
High porosity means your curls absorb moisture and products with ease, as the cuticle structure is raised it allows for easy moisture flow to the hair shaft. However, that easy access due to the raised cuticle means moisture evaporates just as quickly if proper sealing is not incorporated into your curly hair routine.
Given the key structural differences with porosity types you will find a significant difference in products used as part of a low porosity curly routine compared with a high porosity curly routine.
If you’re based in Dubai or the wider Middle East and already have a good grasp of your hair porosity, you can skip the next section of this blog and go straight to understanding why and how your curl porosity behaves differently in the Middle East’s hot and humid climate.
How to determine your hair porosity?
We’ve listed common characteristics of the various porosity types to enable to you answer the question what is my hair porosity?
It’s important to highlight that while medium porosity is the ideal, porosity can change over time due to hormonal changes, lifestyle, environmental changes and the likes. However, the area of focus should be understanding your hair as it is and building a regimen that delivers results. We detail key ingredients you should look for based on porosity from lightweight ingredients for low porosity to rich emollient ingredients for high porosity. Read our full hair porosity ingredient guide.
- Water beads are still present on the hair shaft even after 2-3 mins post water misting – difficult to wet
- High moisture retention
 
- Frequent product build up and residue
- Protein treatments can cause stiffness (if used too frequently)
Common characteristics of medium porosity curls:
- Water and products absorb relatively well (not too slow and not too fast)
- Doesn’t experience chronic dryness
- Responds well to both moisture and protein-based treatments
- Hold styles well with minimal maintenance
 
Common characteristics of high porosity curls:
- Rapidly absorbs water and products
- Quick to dry and become frizzy
- More prone to tangling and damage after excessive heat exposure and chemical treatments
 
Hair Porosity Test That Works: A Science-Backed Guide for Curly Hair
If you've ever Googled "How to test your hair porosity", you've probably come across the popular float test which suggests placing a strand of hair in a glass of water and observing whether it sinks or flats. The sad truth? This test is unreliable and has no scientific basis.
Whether hair sinks or floats in water can be attributed to many factors, air bubbles, product build up, oils and surface tension found in the water itself.
While hair scientists typically measure porosity using microscopes to view the hair cuticle along with other controlled studies, we break down a simple and practical hair porosity test you can perform, which is directly linked to how your curls behave day to day below:
The Emerson 3 Step Porosity Check
Over your next few wash days, pay attention to these three things:
1. The Wetting Test
When: The first 20-30 seconds under the shower, do this after cleansing.
Low Porosity: Water beads appear before your hair feels completely wet. You may even notice droplets sitting on the top of your hair
Medium Porosity: Hair wets fairly evenly within seconds
High Porosity: Hair soaks water almost instantaneously, feeling heavier and fully saturated immediately.
This is the most directly observable high porosity test for how easily water penetrates the cuticle layer.
2. The Drying Time Check
When: After a wash day routine, allow curls to air dry to observe.
Low Porosity: Takes several hours to completely air dry - up to 6 hours
Medium Porosity: Dries within 4-6 hours
High Porosity: Dries quickly, typically within 3-4 hours
Porosity refers to both water intake and water or moisture loss, this is a key consideration for building a curly hair routine for frizz control and defending against humidity.
3. The Product Absorption Test
When: Apply your leave in or curl cream to damp hair.
Low Porosity: Product sits on the hairs' surface for a while, and may require heat or product emulsification to help it penetrate and sink in.
Medium Porosity: Product absorbs quite well with light smoothing
High Porosity: Product disappears into strands quickly and may require more product .
High Porosity: Dries quickly, typically within 3-4 hours
With this core understanding of your hair's response to water and moisture absorption and retention, you're well on your way to building an effective regimen for your natural hair.
Building A Curly Hair Routine Based on Porosity
We've formed a baseline that low porosity curls naturally repel water as the hair cuticle lays flat, so let's now explore what that means when choosing the best products for your natural hair. Humectants are must have ingredients in products that will form part of a low porosity hair regimen, humectants help draw moisture into the hair.
Remember your curl pattern is irrelevant here, whether you have 3A, 3B or 4C curls, low porosity suggests your curls need to help to draw in the moisture that curly hair naturally demands.
Humectants such as honey, agave nectar, aloe vera, glycerin and sodium PCA and Propanediol are fantastic humectants to include in your routine. Look for these ingredients in everything from shampoo, conditioners to curl creams and gel based stylers.
Here's an example of an effective low porosity curly hair routine:
- Cleanser: TréLuxe Curl Renew & Restore Gentle Cleansing Rinse
- Deep conditioner: Camille Rose Algae Renew Deep Conditioning Mask
- Leave In Conditioner: Inahsi Naturals Aloe Hibiscus Leave In Conditioner & Detangler
- Styling Mousse/Foam: The Doux Mousse Def
- Styling Gel: Camille Rose Curl Maker
Let's assess the demands of high porosity hair. High porosity drinks hydration and moisture fast but it evaporates equally as fast. Similar to low porosity hair, high porosity benefits from humectants under specific conditions, however the core of focus is on moisture retention. So more dense, sealing emollients and oils play a key role in an effective regimen.
Here's an example of an effective high porosity curly hair routine:
- Cleanser: Innersense Hydrating Cream Hairbath
- Deep conditioner: Inahsi Naturals Mango Avocado Restorative Hair Masque
- Leave In Conditioner: Ecoslay Rice Pudding Leave In Conditioner
- Curl Cream: TréLuxe Curl Supreme™ 4-in-1 Hydrating Crème
- Styling Gel: Kinky Curly Curling Custard
So, Does My Curl Type Matter at All?
Yes, your curly type does matter, but not in the traditional sense that most people think. The curly typing system was made popular by Andre Walker in the late 90's as a way to categorise different hair textures.
Unfortunately, it has been misused and misinterpreted to some degree and viewed as the ultimate reference for understanding hair textures, it is not a curly hair dictionary as such cannot help you understand your curls' behaviour or unique needs, it simply refers to the aesthetic feature of your hair texture.
It's porosity that determines how products perform on curly hair, how it absorbs and retains moisture and responds to heat and humidity a common challenging factor for curls in Dubai, Saudi and other key Middle East hotspots. When you build your curly hair regimen around porosity first, curly type second, you'll stop using the wrong references and start to see consistent results. This is why with the release of every Emerson edit we ensure our curated range of products are porosity tested, pH-aligned rooted in curl science for high performance to deliver real results.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/how-to-build-a-moisture-rich-curl-routine-with-healthy-hair-studio-by-enitan

May 14, 2025•7 min read ★
TABLE OF CONTENTS
- Curly Hair Care
 - More Love and Special Products
- How Much Hair Product to Use
 
 
- Moisture-Rich Curl Routine
 - Key Steps for a Moisture-Rich Curly Hair Routine
 
 
- Key Steps for a Moisture-Rich Curly Hair Routine
- The Benefits of a Moisture-Rich Curl Routine
- Conclusion
- FAQs
Curly Hair Care
A curly hair routine focuses on maintaining moisture, minimizing frizz and damage, and defining curls. Care involves using sulfate-free shampoos, conditioners, and leave-in treatments. Caring for curly hair also means gentle handling methods, like detangling with wide-toothed combs, diffusing, and overnight protection. 
Curly hair is unique, but it has its challenges. People blessed with curly hair understand that the path to well-defined, luscious curls is not easy because curls demand more care. 
Hair care is essential because of the unique structure of curls, making them more prone to breakage, dryness, and frizz. Furthermore, the spiral shape hinders the scalp’s natural oil from reaching the ends, leading to a need for targeted care and moisture. 
More Love and Special Products
Curly hair is distinctly different from straight hair. That is why curls need more love and special products than straight hair. Below are reasons why curly hair requires more care and attention, and choosing the right products. 
- 
FragileCurly hair is more fragile than straight hair because of its uneven fiber. The hair shaft also has ‘high spots’ in which the cuticle is lifted along with the rest of the hair fiber. When the hair cuticle is lifted, the structure is uncovered and vulnerable to drying out.
 
- 
HumidityCurly hair is prone to humidity and dampness. The hair may lose its shape, and will be bunched up or get fuller and more prone to entanglement.
 
- 
DrynessThe curling design of the hair prevents natural oils from the scalp from spreading to the hair ends, thus, it feels dry.
 
- 
Less ShineCurvy and wavy hair reflects light uniquely, contrasting with that of straight hair. It’s rare for curls to achieve the same amount of shine as straight hair can.
 
- 
Easily IrritatedRinglets tend to dry out and may lead to irritation. This is because providing moisture to the scalp between washes is difficult.
 
How Much Hair Product to Use
The amount of curly hair product to use depends on the hair density, thickness, and the outcome desired. In general, a good approach is to start with a smaller amount and gradually increase as needed.
Factors to Consider:
Hair Type
- Low-density, fine hair. Use a lighter product and less of it to prevent weighing down.
- High-density, thick hair. May need more product to define curls and reach each strand.
- Loose curls. A lightweight product, such as a mousse or spray gel, is preferable.
- Tight curls. May require a gel or thicker curl cream for better definition and hold. 
 
Result Desired
- Height and volume. Use less product.
- Hold and definition. Use more product, particularly if you’re trying to fight frizz. 
 
Product Type
- Creams. A smaller amount is better, particularly for fine hair.
- Mousses. A good option for more definition and volume.
- Gels. You can use larger amounts, especially to control frizz. 
 
Moisture-Rich Curl Routine
For healthy, luscious hair, Healthy Hair Studio by Enitan is the ultimate go-to brand. You can find a wide range of products to give your curls the care and tender love they deserve. Creating a curly hair routine need not be expensive or complicated.
Building a moisture-rich curl routine involves a combination of deep conditioning, gentle cleansing, and moisturizing styling products to keep curls defined and hydrated. 
Key Steps for a Moisture-Rich Curly Hair Routine
Below is a more detailed curly hair care regimen to achieve a moisture-rich look and feel. 
1) Cleanse gently
- Wash less often. Too much washing can strip hair of its natural oils, leading to frizz and dryness. Washing two to three times a week, or co-washing with a cleansing conditioner, works best. 
 
- Clarifying shampoo. Integrate a clarifying shampoo once a month. You can opt to do it every few weeks to remove buildup.
- Sulfate-free shampoos. Go for gentle, sulfate-free shampoos, which clean hair without stripping moisture. 
 
2) Deep condition
- Deep conditioning for curly hair treatments, particularly those with hydrating ingredients like honey, aloe vera, or glycerin, can deeply nourish and moisturize curls. 
 
3) Intense Hydration
- Deep condition regularly. Deep conditioning treatments, especially those with hydrating ingredients like aloe vera, honey, or glycerin, can deeply moisturize and nourish curls.
- Leave-in conditioner. Apply a leave-in conditioner after washing for extra moisture. This detangles hair and also boosts definition.
- Deep conditioner. Applying deep conditioner to damp, clean hair should be done once a week. Let it sit for 15-30 minutes, preferably with heat for more absorption.
 
4) Style for Definition and Moisture
- Seal with oils. Applying oil or butter, such as coconut oil or butter, especially during the dry seasons, can seal in moisture.
- Gels and curl creams. Not only do curl creams and gels provide hold, they also define curls and boost moisture.
- Air drying or diffusing. Air-drying or diffusing locks in moisture. Furthermore, it also helps prevent heat damage.
- Curly girl method. This approach emphasizes deep conditioning, gentle washing, and utilizing curl-enhancing products to unlock the curls’ full potential.
- Refresh between washes. Leave-in conditioners, curl creams, or refresher sprays revitalize curls between washes and also add moisture. 
 
The Benefits of a Moisture-Rich Curl Routine
A moisture-rich curl routine provides numerous benefits. Let’s check them out.
- 
Activates curlsHydrated hair will have bouncy and defined curls.
 
- 
Strengthens hairMoisture fills in the gaps in the hair cuticle, making it less prone to breakage and more resilient.
 
- 
Boosts manageabilityHair that’s moisturized is easier to style and detangle.
 
- 
Less frizzMoisture helps prevent dry hair and frizz, particularly in humid climates.
 
- 
Humidity protectionMoisture-rich curly hair routines help protect curls from the damaging effects of humidity.
 
- 
Easier stylingHair that’s moisturized is more pliable, making styling easy.
 
- 
Enhances shineHydrated curls have a natural shine.
 
- 
Hair growthA healthy hair shaft and scalp, nurtured by regular moisture, contribute to better growth.
 
- 
Less breakageMoisture helps prevent breakage, particularly for curly hair that is naturally more prone to breakage.
 
Conclusion
Curly hair, without a doubt, demands more tender, loving care. Still, a curly hair routine is well worth it because it will give you the curls that are the envy of everyone. Curly hair, when properly maintained and nurtured, can shine with natural beauty, radiating health and vitality. Check out our site to find a wide range of curly hair products and find the right ones for your curls.
FAQs
1) Can a curl-defining cream make hair curly?
No. curl-defining creams only add shine and hold to naturally curly hair. It will not make straight hair go curly.
2) Is moisture important for curly hair?
Curly hair must maintain moisture. Moisturizer is a must to address hair dryness.
3) What does too much moisture do to my curls?
Too much moisture will make curls super soft, droop, or go limp after you wash. It will also result in a soft frizz.
4) Is deep conditioning a must for curly hair?
Yes. Because it provides essential nourishment and moisture to combat dryness and frizz.
5) Can I skip deep conditioner?
Deep conditioner is a treatment. You don’t have to deep condition every wash, especially if your hair is healthy.
 
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/how-to-choose-the-right-curl-defining-cream-for-your-hair-type

April 21, 2025•7 min read ★
TABLE OF CONTENTS
- Defining Naturally Curly Hair
- What is a Curl Defining Cream?
- Types of Curl Creams and Their Uses
 
- How to Choose the Right Curl Enhancer
- Conclusion
- FAQs
Defining Naturally Curly Hair
For those with naturally curly hair, defining it is paramount. Defining curls enhances their natural texture, combats frizz, and achieves a healthy-looking, more manageable style. Due to its unique structure, curly hair is naturally drier and more prone to frizz. 
Fortunately, there are defining techniques to help minimize this problem. Understanding the type of your curly hair and using the correct methods and products can lead to bouncy, more defined curls. To find the right curly hair products that bring out the best in your curls, it’s important to know your hair better.
Know your curls
The first step is to understand your curl pattern in order to determine the right cream properties. The following is a breakdown of the main types of curly hair.
- Wavy: These are looser curls and more S-shaped.
- Curly: These are springier curls with a definite coil shape. The tighter the curl, the more defined it will be. 
 
- Coiled: The tightest and most compact kind of curly hair. It often features zig-zag patterns. 
 
Hair Texture
The texture of the hair, along with the curl pattern, also plays a big role. 
- Fine Texture: Heavy creams can help weigh down fine hair. 
 
- Medium Texture: A more versatile type that can use a wider range of cream textures.
 
- Thick Texture: Can handle creamier, richer formulas.
What is Curl Defining Cream?
Curl-defining creams—also known as curl enhancers—are made to bring out the best in your natural curls. These creams help shape and define your curls while keeping frizz in check and locking in moisture.
They usually have a rich, creamy texture that makes it easier for your curls to stay soft, bouncy, and full of life throughout the day.
You can use this cream either on dry or damp hair. A curl cream works best when used together with other styling products, such as mousse or gel. It provides hydration and hold, which makes it indispensable for those with curly or wavy hair.  
Benefits of Using Curl Cream
Whether you want to achieve defined curls or beachy waves, a curl enhancer can help you. The product is designed to define and moisturize strands, giving a perfect balance of hold and hydration.
- 
Achieve Different StylesCurly hair products, such as a curl cream, can help you achieve different hairstyles. Whether you want beachy, loose waves or bouncy, defined curls, a curl cream acts as a curl definer helping you to achieve the perfect curls.
- 
Provides HydrationCurl activator creams provide definition and hydration. They can help moisturize strands while defining them.
 
- 
Excellent for all Hair TypesA curl-defining cream is excellent for all hair types. Also, curl creams can be used on wet and dry hair, making them versatile and suitable for use in different settings.
 
- 
Taming and Defining Frizzy CurlsA curl definer helps smooth down the hair shaft’s cuticle, resulting in less frizz and more defined curls.
 
- 
Easy to ApplyCurl enhancers are easy to use and apply. It can be used on either dry or damp hair and styled as usual.
 
- 
Adding Shine and MoistureCurl definers contain ingredients that add shine and moisture to the hair shaft, making curls look healthy and beautiful.
 
- 
Nourishes the ScalpSome curl-defining creams contain scalp-nourishing ingredients, such as aloe vera or jojoba. It can help keep the scalp free from irritation and make it look healthier.
 
- 
Protection from Heat DamageWhen applied to damp hair before using hot styling tools or blowers, a curl enhancer, such as a leave-in conditioner, helps protect strands from heat damage.
 
Types of Curl Creams and Their Uses
- 
Moisturizing CreamAs the name suggests, the focus of this hair styling cream is to moisturize hair. Often, it contains humectants, such as aloe vera or honey. It can also help attract moisture to hair strands and prevent them from drying.
 
- 
Defining CreamThis cream is designed to help define curls and give them a polished look. It typically contains silicone or glycerin, which can help control frizz and add shine. Though we recommend avoiding products that contain silicones as they can cause significant buildup and reduce your curls ability to absorb moisture.
 
- 
Leave-In ConditionerAn excellent option if you want more protection and moisture for your hair. Leave-in products usually contain silicones or oils that help seal in moisture and protect hair from damage.
 
- 
Styling Curl CreamA curl styling cream can offer numerous benefits from moisturising to defining with the added offering of soft to medium hold to keep your styling results in place
How to Choose the Right Curl Enhancer Cream
To choose the right curl activator cream, again, consider your hair type, curl or wave patterns, and the desired outcome. Find the best fit by experimenting with various formulas and consistencies. The following are helpful considerations:
Hair Type
Fine Hair – Go for whipped, lightweight, or mousse-like products to avoid weighing down.
Medium Hair – You can explore a range of creamy products
Thick Hair- Choose creamier, richer formulas for more hold and definition.
Curl Pattern
Waves – Cream-based products are suitable for waves.
Curls – Choose products specially designed for curls, usually containing hydrating ingredients like argan oil.
Coils – Go for formulas that provide moisture and hold without being too heavy. 
Outcome Desired
Hydration – Moisturizing ingredients in a product are your best bet for hydration. Choose those that contain shea butter, argan oil, or coconut oil.  
Frizz Control – Go for products with ingredients that help tame and smooth frizz, like silicone or some oils. 
Definition – Choose products that boost the natural curl pattern and add structure. 
Consistency
Whipped – Airy and lightweight, it’s good for fine hair or when you prefer a softer hold. 
Cream – Provides hold and moisture, which is good for most curl types.
Mousse – Provides more volume and hold, and is great for thicker hair or when you need more lift. 
Some Examples of Popular Curl Creams
- 
Breahni Curl Defining CreamEnriched with nourishing ingredients that improve manageability, provide soft definition, and maximum hydration. This styling cream leaves curls feeling bouncy, soft, and moisturized.
 
- 
Mielle Organic’s Curl CreamWith a blend of buriti buriti, copaiba oils, babassu oil, and muru muru, the special formula helps hair absorb and lock in moisture.
 
- 
Blueberry Bliss Twist N Shout CreamThe perfect product for the perfect twist. It adds moisture, sheen, and definition.
 
Conclusion
Curly hair products, such as hair styling creams or curl enhancers, are a great addition to a curly hair routine. Curl-defining creams do more than shape curls. They help lock in moisture and shield your hair from daily wear caused by weather and pollution.
If you want a single product that styles, adds shine, and brings out your natural curl pattern, a curl enhancer is a great choice. Let us help you choose the right curl definition product for that stunning, bouncy, high-definition curl. 
FAQs
1) What is the importance of a curl cream?
A curl cream is a styling product that enhances and defines curls. It can enhance your natural curl pattern, providing you with a more defined, cascading look. 
2) Is a curling cream different from a curl activator?
A curling cream is a styling product that helps create new curls. Often, it contains ingredients that provide definition and hold. A curl activator helps define and enhance existing curls. It usually contains ingredients that help add shine and control frizz. 
3) Is a leave-in conditioner great for curly hair?
Yes. A leave-in conditioner helps soften and hydrate hair, minimizes frizz, and makes curls more manageable. 
4) What are curl enhancers?
Curl enhancers are conditioning stylers that boost waves without weighing them down, protecting them from frizz and controlling them. 
5) Is it necessary to use a curl cream?
No. However, if you want more shine and definition, you should go for it!
6) Does a curl defining cream make hair curly?
No. It only adds hold and shine to curly hair. 
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/in-her-mirror-embracing-curly-hair

November 20, 2025•5 min read ★
Note for Her Curls: The Words That Change How We See Ourselves
In Her Mirror: Episode 2
Some words stay long after the moment has passed. Some words don’t just describe your curls; they reshape your entire perception.
We don’t always realise how much of others words we carry, when we look in the mirror, we don’t just see ourselves we see ourselves through the lens others have created, sometimes there’s an internal battle to self-affirm whilst fighting of words of rejection, disapproval from others.
The quiet adjustment of curls in the mirror, not out of vanity but preparation. Preparing for comments, looks or assumptions, the unspoken pressure to make your hair small, neater and perhaps quieter.
Though sometimes, out of nowhere, a sentence arrives that interrupts it all. No correction. No judgement. Just recognition and unprompted validation.
This is exactly what Episode 2 of In Her Mirror – A Note For Her Curls captures, that precise moment identity shifts because someone sees you curly, before you even see yourself.
Curly Hair Affirmation: The Power of a Single Sentence
She queued for her usual morning coffee before she kickstarted her day, expecting nothing more than routine. Instead, she received a message softly strung across her coffee cup. Six words that lit up her world.
“To the girl with unforgettable curls”
It was small, unprovoked but deeply meaningful.
In that instant, the noise of curly hair disapproval and second guessing fell away. Her curls were no longer something she wanted to control or even apologise for. They are simply hers and worthy.
Some words stay with you long after the cup is empty.
Why Words Matter for Women with Curly Hair
It's easy to question - why do words matter so deeply for women with curly hair?
Language shapes identity. For generation, curly hair and textured hair more broadly has been framed through criticism – “messy”, “unprofessional”, “too big”, “too much”, “needs taming”. So when affirmation replaces disapproval, it rewires everything.
A single sentence can undo years of shrinking. It can shift your entire disposition and turn private insecurity into a real moment of visibility.
For many women globally as well as the Middle East, where smooth, straight hair has long been the beauty norm, representation is emotional, cultural and deeply personal.
When Identity Shifts in a Moment
The handwritten note on the cup didn’t just compliment hair. It reframed identity.
Suddenly, these three things happened:
- Curls became something to admire
- Texture became presence, not a problem or distraction
- Confidence was internalised and not borrowed.
Words became a mirror, reflecting a truth rather than scrutiny.
Again for many women and girls with textured hair, this matters because:
- Curly hair is not a quick trend
- It is lineage, heritage and story
- It deserves visibility, not dimed
This echoes the same mirror moment in Episode 1 – the subtle duality of private vs public identity.
If you missed Episode 1, explore it here: [ Reflected Twice: Mirror Moments That Shape Curly Hair Identity ]
For a deeper cultural context, read [ Curly Hair in Modern Arab World: Are Perceptions Shifting ]
Why Language Is Redefining Beauty Norms In The Middle East
Moments like this demonstrate soft, unscripted, real are what truly redefines beauty away from performance and marketing jargon towards truth that builds confidence.
This Episode in the series brings the question why is embracing curly hair important in the Middle East? Put simply because everyday interactions shift perceptions and wider curly more powerfully than any campaign could. Visibility becomes possibility and possibility becomes change.
This is how culture reshapes itself: Not loudly, but quietly in the intimacy of small moments, cup by cup, word by word and woman by woman.
What This Curl Series Is Trying to Change
In Her Mirror is not a curly hair styling series. It is a storytelling archive - a movement rooted in emotion, truth and lived experience.
It amplifies:
- Identity
- Representation
- Emotion
- Heritage
- Private defining moments
Episode 2 exists because sometimes the encouragement we need doesn't come from us first. It sometimes comes from someone who sees what we forgot to believe.
Watch Episode 2 - A Note for Her Curls
Shot in Dubai, Episode 2 captures an intimate shift - the moment a woman steps into visibility, not because she changed her hair, but because someone changed the narrative around it. [ Watch Episode 2 on Instagram or YouTube]
About In Her Mirror
In Her Mirror is an editorial storytelling series by Emerson – the Middle East’s first curl lifestyle destination – which explores how women with curly, textured hair see themselves in private, with a spotlight on that internal monologue that often causes us to second guess our curls. Shot in Dubai, the series captures identity, representation and the evolving narrative around curly hair and curl culture more broadly in the region.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/in-her-mirror-reflected-twice-curly-hair-identity

November 18, 2025•5 min read ★
Reflected Twice: How Women with Curly Hair See Themselves in Private vs. Public Spaces
Have you ever caught yourself reflecting in a public bathroom, public yet the moment feels so private? This is the kind of scared moment we all experience but yet do not recognise. It’s often where we feel our most vulnerable or maybe sometimes insecure, adjusting our curls, smoothing our skin, the moment we align ourselves before we meet what’s on the other side of the door – the world. For women with textured hair, that moment of identity affirmation or rejection is often shaped in the mirror.
It's a moment where we can find ourselves questioning whether our curls are "good enough" or maybe whether they are "too loud" or “frizzy" and need to be "tamed"?
In Her Mirror, Episode 1- Reflected Twice explores this precise moment. In Episode the lead character enters a soft space refreshing her curls away from the noise and distraction of the outside world. Though, what unfolds is not a typical hair moment, but in fact a moment of recognition, the kind that sits the intersection of identity, memory and self-perception.
In the Middle East, similar to the West, beauty norms have historically leaned towards smooth, sleek hair the standard. It’s easy to understand why these private moments for a woman with curly hair carry even more significance. We explore this deeper in our recent feature [ Curly Hair in the Modern Arab World: Are Perceptions Shifting? ]
The Private Self vs The Public Self
The title of Episode 1 – Reflected Twice stems from the knowledge that every woman carries two versions of herself:
The private self, shaped by quiet and intimate thoughts, wrapped in the routine of life and everyday reflections
The public self, shaped by societal views, expectations and standards.
For women with curly hair the shift between these two forms of self can be quite profound.
In private, curls are glossy, fluid, a form of self-expression and individuality.
In public, curls are not part of the uniform, they are measured, questioned or misunderstood.
Episode 1, captures this duality in its truest form. An ordinary bathroom reflection becomes a statement about how representation shapes confidence.
The Unexpected Moment of Recognition of Curly Hair
This frame of encounter anchors the entire episode, the moment another curly girl wearing a hijab emerges from the cubicle. Even without her curls being visible , there's an instant recognition: the act of a curl refresh and the scent that clean, natural curly hair products tend to contain.
“That’s why curly girls always smell so good."
It’s light, unexpected but says everything. Why? In that split second, two women recognised each other not just as strangers but as mirrors. The mirror moment was no longer a solo one, the second curly girl acts a metaphor and symbol of validation.
This is representation in its rawest form: one woman noticing what it is often overlooked. This is the why behind In Her Mirror.
A quiet mirror moment captured in real time - a reflection seen twice.
Why this moment matters in the Middle East
In a region where curly and textured hair is slowly gaining visibility but is still underrepresented, everyday encounters like this hold power. They serve as a reminder that:
- Curly hair is not a trend
- It isn’t a “tough or unmanageable” hair type
- It is deeply rooted in identity, lineage and culture
- It is not an afterthought
Episode 1 doesn’t lecture or over explain but instead, it lets the moments we all understand but often overlook, linger, allowing viewers to see what is often unseen: a shared language between curly haired girls and women.
This is the language of nodes, glances, smiles, borrowed curly hair products, compliments and a knowing sense of sisterhood or womanhood that forms in the most unexpected places.
What In Her Mirror is Really About
Episode 1 of In Her Mirror isn’t just the beginning of a quick series, it’s the beginning of something bigger – a shift, a movement, a reshaping of perception.
In Her Mirror is the first storytelling series rooted in the region that amplifies the voice of curly hair women and children, not as a trend or beauty challenge, but as lived experience shaped by:
- Identity
- Heritage
- Climate
- Representation
- Emotion
- Private defining moments
By capturing a scene as two women meeting in a bathroom, we open a wider conversation about what curly hair symbolising in the Middle East today.
Each episode in the series is short by layered, simple yet meaningful, quiet yet deeply resonate.
This series is not about trends, keeping up with a platform algorithm. It’s a series produced to capture real thoughts, real perceptions and real issues, beauty through unfiltered lens. Episode 1 is about seeing yourself reflected twice: in the mirror and in someone else’s eyes.
Watch Episode 1 – Reflected Twice
Shot entirely in Dubai at The Bureau, Opera Grand, Reflected Twice sets the tone for a movement were building and leading, curl stories today with intimacy cultural depth and emotional accuracy. [ Watch Episode 1 on Instagram or YouTube]
About In Her Mirror
In Her Mirror is an editorial storytelling series by Emerson – the Middle East’s first curl lifestyle destination – which explores how women with curly, textured hair see themselves in private, with a spotlight on that internal monologue that often causes us to second guess our curls. Shot in Dubai, the series captures identity, representation and the evolving narrative around curly hair and curl culture more broadly in the region.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/is-curly-hair-attractive

August 26, 2024•6 min read ★
Curly hair has always been a beautiful and distinguishing beauty feature regardless of whether society affirms this or not. What we are now seeing is greater appreciation for natural curls by mainstream media, a major sign of progress but on the other hand could this just be the case because curly hair is now “in style” and there has been a great deal of viralilty in this day of social media influencing? Let’s attempt to dissect this.
A change in the meaning of beauty standards?
Though we know beauty standards are always evolving, there are some key aspects that don’t really change too dramatically. Let’s consider a woman’s physique, if she’s tall and slim she’s labelled model like, if she’s voluptuous she’s put in a bucket labelled plus size. If we really think about it, beauty standards have now become a thing of what’s trending or what’s in style as opposed to something that’s set in stone for a decade or more. Let’s take the 90’s, the 90’s was a decade where curls were acceptable and something to be desired, particularly in a women, from Julia Robert’s vibrant, luscious loose curls to Mariah Carey’s easy breezy ringlets.
Fast forward 10 years to the early 2000's, mainstream media, let us know that natural curls aren’t “it” anymore and natural’s curls required some finishing touches for it to continue to remain picture perfect or dreamy. In came the love for chemical relaxers once again, in addition to the infamous Brazilian Blowout Treatment, hailing from Brazil. This marked the beginning of a never ending desire for perfection achieved through high chemical keratin treatments, designed to create the sleekest, shiniest and straightest locks, without a care for the after or more long term damaging effects stemming from the inclusion of highly toxic ingredients such as Formaldehyde.
During this time, it was probably fair to say ignorance was truly bliss! Can you imagine your hair going through a harsh, highly chemical fuelled hair treatment followed by a blow dry and flat iron in order for the chemical treatment to activate and thereafter the process of bonding with the hair shaft takes place?
The more interesting part is the regularity in which this treatment must be done in order to sustain this idea of perfect, silky straight locks. On average, a follow up treatment is recommended every 12 weeks! That is four times a year, your hair is required to go through this gruelling, chemically damaging hair treatment! 
 
Increased awareness and greater appreciation
Add on another 10 years, a revival for natural curls begins in the underworld, chemical treatments slowly bow out and the championing of natural curls begins (again!). As awareness steadily develops it grabs mainstream media’s attention once again. Why? The world stopped and was forced to grapple with the dreaded coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. While adhering to the stay at home policy as a means of protection, many were unable to follow and maintain regular hair salon appointments where they would undergo some form of keratin treatment. This brought a lot of attention to the idea of caring for your hair naturally at home and the discovery of clean, and more natural hair products. We saw a stripping back of the Hollywood veil with many female celebrities resorting to embracing their natural hair texture including Gabrielle Union, Kerry Washington, Ariana Grande and even the likes of the picture perfect Kardashian’s - Khloe Kardashian in particular, in an Instagram upload she captioned “I rarely wear my natural hair texture, Felt kinda cute (please don’t ruin the feeling)”. She went further in her Instagram story upload with a side by side of her curly hair as a child and then, added “I’ve been getting Straightening Treatments on my hair for years. I’ve been getting Brazilian Blowouts and other treatments since I’ve been a teenager, I stopped because of COVID, I actually kind a like my curls”. We know that Khloe Kardashian was just one of many millions who have undergone the exact same process with their hair during this time. One of the small positives to come out of the COVID pandemic is this increased love, awareness and acceptance of how beautiful natural curls are.
We believe this was not just another “curls are in” again moment, but a pivotal moment in the Curly Hair industry. Where the work of many natural hair or curly hair experts, stylists, researchers, brand owners were given a well deserved platform. How did this become such a pivotal time for curly hair? We as humans in the 21st century were forced to master the concept of unfiltered self love including a love for your natural curls, in a new, refreshing and unconventional manner.
5 years on, considerable progress has been made and if we are to go by Hollywood standards, curly hair is still very much “in style” and still trending. Curly hair is now appreciated, celebrated and continues to be embraced the right way. Does this mean curly hair has become more attractive? Though we are of the view that curly hair has remained incredibly attractive and highly desirable. The recognition by mainstream media could suggest that indeed curly hair is more attractive in both women and men. The recognition of natural curls by mainstream media can be largely attributable to the rise of curly hair influencers on Instagram and Titok showcasing their natural curls by sharing curly hair products, washday routines, best styling tips and techniques. This has further propelled an increase in indie curly hair brands as well as existing well established textured hair care brands to develop and create product lines targeting the needs of this market.
The beauty of the curly hair movement is that you are more empowered now than ever to nurture your curls the right way with a degree of independence, such that you do not need to be in a salon chair on a monthly basis. Curly hair experts do not necessarily need to operate out of salon to be specialists. 
Emerson is proof that curly hair education empowers you to make the right product selection for your hair type as we’ve helped and continue to help ‘000s of clients do just that and achieve incredible results they didn’t know were possible.
If you’re ready to embark on a transformational curly hair journey, reach out to our team of curly experts here, who will educate, empower and get your natural curls right on track.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/kinky-curly-curling-custard-review

February 20, 2026•4 min read ★
Kinky Curly Curling Custard, commonly known in the curly haircare space as KCCC, has been around for well over a decade and still remains a tried and true textured hair staple. In an industry driven by constant reformulation and trend cycles, why does it continue to gain so much popularity many years on? For one, the formula has remained the same, centred on minimal, clean ingredients to truly nourish and define curly hair textures across the spectrum.
At Emerson, this remains one of our best selling stylers along with The Doux Mousse Def.
Let's breakdown what makes this curling custard different, how it performs in the Middle East and who its best suited to.
What is Kinky Curly Curling Custard
Kinky Curly Curling Custard (KCCC) is not your standard gel, it's common for people to use the terms "gel" and "custard" interchangeably but in reality they are different, from a formulation and product performance perspective. KCCC is a botanical styling custard formulated to:
- Enhance curl definition and elongate
- Smooth the cuticle and reduce frizz
- Maintain moisture levels during styling
- Provide a flexible, touchable hold.
Unlike traditional curl styling gels, this formulation relies on plant based humectants and polymers instead of heavy film formers or synthetic alcohol derivates to deliver moisture, curl memory and shine. This is what makes it incredibly popular for moisture focused routines that do not want to compromise on definition and tighter curl patterns that need elongation.
How Does It Perform in UAE & Middle Eastern Conditions?
In hot and humid environments, curly hair textures need:
- Controlled moisture retention
- Flexible hold that adapts and doesn't stiffen
- Frizz control without the crunch
This is where Kinky Curly Curling Custard shines. This is what to expect in terms of results with this product:
- Strong Curl Formation (Curl clumping)
- Elongated Curl Definition - especially important for tight curl patterns
- Reduce halo frizz without flattening volume
- Lasting moisture
- No flaking when layered correctly
Texture Hold & Finish: What to Expect
- Texture: Gel-custard hybrid consistency
- Hold Level: Medium (buildable)
- Finish: Touchable, elongated definition with a natural gloss
Who Kinky Curly Curling Custard is Best For
This product performs well on all hair types, however for optimal results, product usage should be aligned with curl pattern and density.
Kinky Curly Curling Custard generally is best suited to tighter curl patterns ranging form Type 3 to Type 4 curls, as they have more curvature and tend to experience greater shrinkage than looser textures.
As well as high porosity or moisture seeking curls, or if you favour wash 'n' go routines this styler is the perfect match.
How to Use Kinky Curly Curling Custard
This custard generally has stellar reviews across the board, to enjoy exceptional styling results with this product, we highly recommend the following:
- Start with freshly cleansed hair (free of build up, build up reduces styler performance)
- Apply a lightweight, water based leave in such as Knot Today.
- Apply Curling Custard to soaking wet hair, this is key for curls that seek elongation.
- Smooth and rake, avoid scrunching too early, allow the product to fully glaze your curls
- Allow cast to form before touching
This approach allows the custard to distribute evenly and form a flexible styling film that adapts as the hair dries.
Why Kinky Curly Knot Today Pairs Well
Knot Today works well as a supporting base layer under Curling Custard, particularly for detangling and smoothing the cuticle to allow the custard to glide and distribute evenly.
It contains natural humectant like properties making it hydrating for porous curls, a little goes along way with the Kinky Curly range.
Think of Knot Today as the preparation step, ahead of the main act for definition and elongation.
Where to Buy Kinky Curly in the UAE & Middle East
Authenticity and storage conditioners matter with cult curly hair products. Emerson, as the Middle East's 1st Curl Lifestyle Destination, doesn't compromise on quality, your trusted source for high performance curly hair brands and products including the Kinky Curly range. Available to shop at emersonhairandbeauty.com
FAQs
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/middle-eastern-men-with-curls

August 09, 2024•6 min read ★
We are of the belief that men in the gulf should embrace their natural curls, however western standards may suggest otherwise. Let's explore this further.
Why this traditional view of beauty for men?
The beauty standards for men and equally women have increased with the popularity of social media and mega influencers. The beauty standards are now centred around a man’s physique and ruggedness through a traditional lens of perfectly straight brown or blonde locks, particularly in the western part of the world.
Male beauty standards in the Middle East
In the UAE it is extremely common to see a male salon include a full grooming package which many males avail – including a cut for both the hair and beard and shape up where preferred, also included is a facial, an idea that we absolutely love. There is no reason a male cannot indulge in similar beauty treatments to women. Looking more specifically at the hair aspect of the treatments, treatments include conditioning, detoxing and hair loss related treatments have become available. 1847 for men demonstrates this perfectly with a wide range of treatments exclusively for males.
That level of beauty standard is admirable as it shows there is an importance placed on male grooming. The typical standard of beauty in the middle east is varied which displays accommodation for different features including hair types – from curly hair to straight hair, long beards to short beards, there is no one-size fits all.
This representation exists as Middle Eastern, Mediterranean, and other Indigenous groups naturally exhibit wavy to curly hair patterns.
Examples of representation include (from left to right) Actor Aviv Alush of Israeli heritage, Ebraheem Al Samadi of Kuwaiti heritage, from popular reality TV show – Dubai Bling, Actor Ramy Youssef of Egyptian heritage.
Why is curly hair representation important, particularly in the male beauty industry?
Statistics show that well over half of the world’s population has textured hair – absolutely incredible but yet still this market is still underserved and underrepresented. The same is true specifically for the Arab population, with over 60% of Arabs with textured hair according to this study. Whilst textured hair is the overarching term, textured hair refers to hair that is not straight in structure stemming from the root of the hair – the hair follicle. Textured hair includes wavy, curly, coily and kinky hair textures.
Traditionally, the media has always pushed straight hair in our faces as the beauty standard not only for females but males too. Thankfully, we have seen progress in this area though slow, as undoubtably there is still a long way to go but with continuous efforts to encourage natural beauty, we will start to see better representation not just in the media but also in corporate environments. What we would love to see is curly hair move from being a "trend" or "what is in style" to becoming an accepted global beauty standard.
Once we see more representation of males with curly hair, it’s only natural that the beauty standards for women and children adjust and follow suit. After all, we are simply advocating for people to embrace their natural beauty features. This is not to suggest textured hair should not be cared for and maintained in the same way straight textures are, quite the contrary, when we think of preserving nature, for example, we think of ways to care, protect and nurture it. The same applies to naturally curly hair.
Are curly hair products solely targeted at women?
Traditionally the beauty market has placed women as the focal point of beauty with long straight luscious locks. Over the last few years, there has been a considerable shift and we believe that’s starting to become evident in the market for curly hair products.
A woman's hair is known as her crowning glory and as a result the primary market for beauty. However, for men, hair can also be viewed as a feature of beauty. Most especially beautiful God given features like natural curls.
Curly hair products are not designed with a gender in mind, they are designed and formulated with a hair type and texture in mind, as such we would go as far as saying there is no such thing as curly hair products for men. However, marketing of curly hair products has been centred around women, hence this could discourage males from embracing their natural curls.
Though, what we have witnessed is mass market beauty brands continue to do a great job of creating the illusion that male and women require different hair products to do the same job. Upon reviewing several mass market haircare products, we see the product formulation fundamentally is the same, the only key and notable difference are the fragrance notes.
Let's think about it most natural hair ingredients, take a herb like lavender or peppermint as examples, these herbs do not have a gender, they are included in formulations based on their ability to nourish the hair or target a hair concern and achieve a desired outcome.
With many curly hair products the scents are typically neutral, so can be used for both males and females. Ecoslay's Jello Shot Curl Definer is a perfect example, here you see the results on a male and female with curly hair. This product has a light strawberry scent that is not overpowering.
You may be thinking, their curls look good because of their styling routines. Whilst this is partially true, this cannot be achieved without the right products. Influencers have and continue to be a great way to promoting natural curls on both males and females. For males who love their natural curls but don't know how to best accommodate their curls into their style, the video below does a great job of walking you through age appropriate curly hair styles.
To summarise this interesting yet somewhat sensitive topic of discussion, we reflect on the progress albeit slow progress with regards to the shift in beauty standards for males and females globally. More specifically, noting that the UAE market demonstrates a varied beauty standard despite the majority of the population being expats, traditional features that are known to people of Middle Eastern backgrounds such as curly hair are being embraced, however there is room for greater representation. With increased accessibility to products suited to curly hair, males in the gulf region can now maintain and flaunt their natural curls with ease.
At Emerson, we serve both males and females with textured hair, our goal as always remains providing you with the best of curly hair products and education, so your natural curls can flourish!
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/mists-vs-perfumes-curly-hair

November 12, 2024•7 min read ★
In your hair care routine, fragrance is not just a bonus. But it is considered an accessory that can make your curls more voluminous. People with curly hair, navigating through the series of products available can easily make you feel overwhelmed.
Always remember! The right hair fragrance can improve your mood, while the wrong one can leave you feeling not so good.
Then enters the hair mists and perfumes. A two fabulous options that can easily help in excelling hair hydration and combat fragrance needs.
What’s the difference?
Which one should you choose between hair mist and the best hair fragrance?
More questions will be answered through this blog, dive deep into this aromatic adventure as we explore their meanings, benefits, and tips.
What is Hair Mist?
Hair mists are lightweight sprays that are formulated specifically for hydration and refreshment of hair.
Unlike any traditional hair fragrances, which are solely made up of scent, hair mists serve both purposes. Though, the best hair mist fragrance's primary goal is to deliver moisture, helping them to maintain the health and appearance of hair while imparting a subtle perfumish smell.
Common Ingredients Found in Hair Mists
Any hair mist fragrance is a combination of hydrating elements such as glycerin and botanical extracts that work to moisturize the hair. Essential oils can be included for a pleasant scent and other benefits, such as scalp nourishment.
Benefits of Hair Mists for Curly Hair
There are multiple benefits of having both components of fragnance+hydration under a single bottle:
Hydration and Moisture Retention
Curly hair is prone to be more dry and frizzy hair, making hydration an essential haircare ritual. Hair mists can help in getting moisture throughout the day, combating dryness, and enhancing the hair.
Lightweight and Non-Greasy Formula
One of the standout features of hair mists is their lightweight formulation. Unlike heavier oils or creams, hair mists absorb quickly, leaving hair feeling fresh without a greasy residue. This is particularly beneficial for curly hair, which can become weighed down by products.
Can Be Used Throughout the Day for Refreshment
Hair mists are versatile, allowing for on-the-go use. Whether you need a midday pick-me-up or want to refresh your curls after a workout, a quick spritz can revive your hairstyle and provide a burst of hydration.
Recommended Usage
How to Apply Hair Mists Effectively
To achieve the best results, hold the hair mist 6-8 inches away from your hair. Spray evenly, focusing on the mid-lengths, and ends to avoid over-saturating the roots.
Best Times to Use
Hair mists can be used throughout the day, including:
- After Washing: To provide immediate hydration and define your curls.
- Mid-Day Refresh: To combat dryness and rejuvenate your curls.
- Before Styling: To prepare hair for styling products and reduce frizz.
What is Hair Perfume?
Hair perfumes are specially formulated fragrances designed to be applied to hair. They differ from traditional perfumes, for often contain lighter concentrations of fragrance, making them suitable for hair.
Emphasis on Fragrance Concentration and Longevity
Hair perfumes are more concentrated than hair mists and its focus is primarily on the scent. The best hair fragrance formulas are designed to linger, allowing you to enjoy a long-lasting good smell throughout the day.
Benefits of Hair Perfumes for Curly Hair
Numerous benefits can be availed by applying the hair perfumes. Let’s explore them:
Long-Lasting Scent
One of the primary benefits of hair perfumes is their ability to provide a long-lasting scent that you can easily carry throughout the day. This is particularly appealing for those looking to add a signature fragrance to their curls.
Can Mask Odours
Hair perfumes can effectively mask odors, such as smoke or food smells, making them a great choice after spending time in environments with strong smelly atmospheres.
Some Formulations Include Nourishing Ingredients
While their primary focus is fragrance, some hair perfumes also incorporate nourishing ingredients that can help maintain hair health. Look for products containing vitamins or oils that can easily provide additional benefits.
Recommended Usage
When to Apply Hair Perfume
Hair perfumes can be applied at various times:
- After Styling: To finish your look and add a pleasant scent.
Key Differences Between Hair Mists and Hair Perfumes
Hair mist vs perfume there is no competition but major differences between them:
- 
Ingredients and Formulation
Hair mists are primarily hydrating, often containing ingredients focused on moisture and retention. While hair perfumes are fragrances are heavy, emphasizing more scent longevity.
- 
Fragrance Strength
Hair perfumes have a higher concentration of fragrances compared to the mists, leading to a longer-lasting scent in your hair.
- 
Purpose and Functionality
Hair mists provide hydration & refreshment, making them ideal for daily use. On the other hand, hair perfumes are designed to enhance your hair scent, suitable for special occasions.
- 
Impact on Hair Health
While hair mists generally improve hair health through hydration, hair perfumes can sometimes include nourishing elements but are primarily focused on fragrance. It's essential to choose the best hair products in UAE, that suit your hair type to avoid potential drawbacks of hair fragrance.
Choosing the Right Product for Curly Hair
- 
Assessing Hair Needs
Understanding your specific hair needs is crucial. Consider factors like moisture levels, frizz control, and desired fragrance intensity when selecting between mists and perfumes.
- 
Fragrance Preferences
Personal preferences also play a significant role in choosing the right product for your hair. Some may prefer the subtlety of a hair mist, while others may enjoy the richness of a fragrance perfume.
- 
Lifestyle Considerations
Evaluate your daily routine and lifestyle. For those with busy schedules, a versatile hair mist may be ideal, while those attending events might opt for a more concentrated hair perfume.
- 
Skin Sensitivity
For individuals with sensitive skin, it’s wise to choose hypoallergenic products that won’t irritate the scalp or hair.
Tips for Using Hair Mists and Hair Perfumes
There are certain tips to make sure to never choose anything wrong for your hair:
- 
Application Techniques
To avoid weighing down hair curls, apply hair mists and perfumes sparingly. Focus on the mid-lengths and ends, also consider sectioning your hair to ensure even distribution.
- 
Layering Fragrance
Combining the hair mists and perfumes can create a balanced scent. Start with a hair mist for hydration, followed by a light spritz of hair perfume for added fragrance.
- 
Storage and Shelf Life
To maintain your product, store your hair mists and perfumes in a cool and dark place. Avoid exposing them to extreme heat or direct sunlight, which can alter their formulation.
Conclusion
Choosing between a hair mist and hair perfume depends on your curly hair needs, fragrance preferences, and the lifestyle you lead. Hair mists offer good hydration and versatility to the hair, while hair perfumes deliver a long-lasting scent.
That’s why experimenting with both products can help in discovering what works best for your hair, ensuring your curls remain healthy and beautifully scented.
That’s why don’t hesitate to explore different brands and formulations to find out your hair match!
FAQs
1) Can I use hair mists and hair perfumes together?
Yes! Layering your hair with both products can create a balanced fragrance while benefiting from the moisturizing properties.
2) Are hair mists suitable for all hair types?
While there is no issue in using a hair mist for any hair, for curly hair it tends to be more beneficial for that added hint of hydration.
3) How often should I apply hair mist or hair perfume?
Hair mists can be easily used throughout the day, while hair perfumes are best while styling or on special occasions.
4) Do hair mists help with frizz control?
Yes, many hair mists contain ingredients that can help combat frizz and provide the necessary moisture.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/protein-for-curly-hair-middle-east

February 12, 2026•7 min read ★
If you live in the Dubai, the UAE or anywhere in the Middle East, you'll find there is great focus on hard water related challenges for curly hair. Followed by dryness and moisture focused as well as humidity proof routines for frizz free curls, but what is often dropped of the priority list is protein. Protein shouldn’t be viewed through the lens of a one off treatment for curly hair, but a fundamental building block with its usage largely based on porosity as well as lifestyle considerations.
What does protein mean for curly hair?
To lay the foundation, it’s important to understand what protein is, without the overly technical jargon. Protein is the primary structural component of hair – keratin specifically. Human hair is made up of approximately 80-90% keratin, this is the internal architecture and backbone of the hair fibre.
Keratin Treatments vs Protein in Curly Haircare
Within the Middle East curly hair space, the term “keratin” has become interchangeable with chemical straightening treatments. To avoid any doubt, Keratin straightening treatments work by chemically altering the internal bonds of the hair to rebond and force a smoother straighter shape.
Keratin as a protein in haircare, on the other hand, works on the surface and internal structure of the hair fibre to reinforce strength and breakage resistance without altering your natural curl pattern.
This is what gives hair its strength, structure and shape. Without this structural integrity, the hair fibre becomes weak and fragile. This is why protein is essential for all hair types, but most especially textured hair.
Curly hair needs protein as well as moisture to truly thrive. Moisture can not be retained if there’s significant protein loss in the hair shaft, this illustrates why moisture and protein work handed in hand and not in isolation.
Frequency of use, what form it takes and where it fits into your curly hair routine is where the difference lies.
Why Protein Matters for Curly Hair in the Middle East
In the UAE and wider Middle East, we’re exposed to significant levels of sunlight all year round. Case studies have shown that UV exposure is known to degrade the hair’s proteins over time, making protein reinforcement particularly important in this region.
If you add humidity effects, hard water and day to day friction caused by styling and manipulation, you compound the need for targeted protein infusions in curly hair.
How and when to incorporate protein into your hair care regimen
Protein can be found across a range of products from cleansers, conditioners, serums to stylers, however its content varies. For proper reinforcement, at Emerson, we recommend incorporating protein reinforcement efforts in the conditioning phase of your wash day routine.
Why: Targeted treatments stay on the hair longer which gives protein the ability to penetrate the hair cuticle and reinforce internal bonds.
Frequency: General rule of thumb is every 3-4 weeks or wash days for high porosity hair and every 4-6 weeks for low to medium porosity hair.
Though, there is no one-size-fits-all approach to curl care, so it’s important to observe your hair on wash day and the days that follow.
How To Determine if Your Curls Need Protein
A few cues to help you determine whether you are due a protein treatment:
- Curls experience breakage from light tension. For example, lightly pulling your hair, detangling your curls when wet.
- Excessive breakage when manipulating your hair when wet. This is a key indicator of protein loss, particularly as curly hair textures are strongest and adaptable when wet. The opposite is true for straighter hair textures.
- Your curls rapidly lose moisture no matter which moisturising products you use to impart and retain moisture.
Is Protein Sensitivity a Real Thing for Curly Hair?
It’s important for us to address this topic, as it’s one of our most frequently asked questions.
Question: My curls are protein sensitivity, so I don’t use protein in my hair, what should I do?
Answer: It’s not scientifically possible for your hair to be protein sensitive as the hair itself is made up of protein. However, it is possible for your hair to react negatively to a protein treatment, if it's not correctly balanced with moisture, or the amount of protein in a product is excessive.
The term protein sensitive is what we take to mean protein imbalance. Protein comes in various forms and the type of protein your curls require will be subject to your porosity and general lifestyle.
Best Types of Protein For Curly Hair
Hydrolyzed Proteins, unlike whole proteins, hydrolyzed proteins are broken down into smaller molecules allowing for faster and better absorption in the hair shaft.
These are the best and most common types of proteins used for repair, structural reinforcement and strength, they include:
- Hydrolyzed Silk Protein
- Hydrolyzed Oat Protein
- Hydrolyzed Soy Protein
- Hydrolyzed Wheat Protein
- Hydrolyzed Quinoa
- Hydrolyzed Keratin Protein
These types of proteins fill in the gaps and weak spots found in the hair fibre, particularly useful for more porous textured hair – high porosity, chemically treated, heat treated and colour treated hair types need this type of reinforcement more regularly.
To avoid stiffness and straw like curls, these proteins should be balanced with moisture.
Another example of protein is amino acids, in hair care product formulations they are individual and unlinked. They are the smallest units of protein which attract and bind to water, almost taking on a humectant like property.
This type of protein is recommended for more protein sensitive curls as they support elasticity and the hair’s natural moisture balance, but doesn't stiffen the hair.
Best Protein Conditioners and Treatments for Curly Hair in the UAE
Below are our top 5 Protein conditioners and treatments, perfect across different porosity types and all textures, available via Emerson's Protein Rich Collection.
1. Protein Defence by Healthy Hair Studio By Enitan - A pure concentrated protein treatment, suitable for all porosity types. Not to be used alone but mixed with your favourite moisturising conditioner with a ratio of 3:1.
Key Protein Ingredients: Hydrolyzed Protein
Best suited to: All porosities
2. Inahsi Mango Avocado Restorative Hair Masque - A deep treatment masque that conditions by restoring optimal moisture - protein balance, to help restore protein loss, retain moisture and minimise the effects of daily manipulation and tension.
Key Protein Ingredients: Hydrolyzed oat protein and silk amino acids
Best suited to: Medium to High Porosity
3. Kinky Curly Stellar strands - An immensely hydrating treatment designed to improve elasticity, reduce breakage and boost moisture.
Key Protein ingredients: Silk Amino Acids
Best suited to: Low to Medium Porosity
4. Ecoslay Matcha Boost Protein Deep Conditioner - A plant based protein treatment  designed to strengthen hair, restore elasticity and volume. 
Key Protein Ingredients: Hydrolyzed Quinoa, Keratin and Matcha
Best suited to: High Porosity
5. Uncle Funky's Daughter Heal & Renew Intensive Hair Masque - A transformative protein - moisture treatment formulated to restore strength and moisture to weak, limp or damaged curls .   
Key Protein Ingredients: Silk Amino Acids
Best suited to: Low to Medium Porosity
Protein as A Part of Overall Curl Care in the Middle East
In a climate like the Middle East, where curly and textured hair is constantly exposed to sun, heat, hard water minerals and frequent styling manipulation, protein isn't optional, its essential. The goal isn't to overload the hair, but to maintain structural balance over time. When protein is incorporated correctly and sequenced in line with your hair's condition/porosity, your hair texture becomes more resilient, defined and maintains moisture for longer. Understanding your porosity, lifestyle and environment remains key to building a healthy hair regimen that works.
FAQs
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/rewriting-the-story-of-curly-hair

December 05, 2025•4 min read ★
Curly Hair Through Two Mirrors: Childhood and Adulthood
In Her Mirror Episode 4, we see the main character walking into the waiting room for her appointment - curls soft, full and lifted after a calm morning spent styling and setting them. She takes a seat, a chair way from a little girl waiting for her mother or related adult in their appointment. The room is quiet yet still a space where quiet details become louder.
The little girl aged seven perhaps eight, with loose springy curls, is lost in her own world of curls and crayons colouring her booklet titled My Curls, My Crown, filled with illustrations designed to build identity and confidence in children.
After admiring the little girl from a far, she gets up to head inside for her appointment carrying the vivid image of this little girl, she sees something she never had – a childhood where curls are celebrated early on.
She sees her younger self, longing for this level of acceptance – the version of her who tied her back in school, who wished she looked like her mates, who thought straight hair was easier, safer and more acceptable.
Nurturing Curly Hair From Early: Like Her, Like Me
In this episode of the series, we witness a girl growing up proud, a girl unashamed, a girl that sees curly hair as beautiful. We also see a woman learning and finally believing in her curls. She saw a reflection of her younger self validating her current self with the words “Your curls are so big and so beautiful”
This sentence was enough to unravel years of internal conflict, a conflict so many curly haired women know too well. "Is my hair is too messy?" "Should I just do a keratin treatment?" "Why are my curls so frizzy?
Two generations meet in a quiet waiting room, completely unaware that they are rewriting a story together.
This is an example of how change happens, not necessarily loudly or overnight but through everyday moments and passing encounters like this.
What we see is a future being shaped, a past being healed and a story being rewritten simultaneously.
This serves to remind us that representation isn’t abstract. It is emotional validation. Its a mirror, a memory rewritten.
Tackling Negative Associations with Curly Hair
While many curly haired woman have worked hard to build confidence with their texture, it hasn't always been easy. The majority of us grew up unsure, apologetic and constantly quieten ourselves to fit in. We recall reposting a story of a mother who attended our Mummy & Me Curl Experience in Dubai back in June and she captioned the image -
"This has healed my inner child"
A statement that resonates so deeply.
It brings back the years we spent shrinking ourselves, the years spent rebuilding a positive self image, not because something was wrong with curly hair but because of something was wrong with the narrative around them.
In our reflections session, our main character expands on this same theme. She recognises how far she has come and how much further the next generation will go because of moments just like this.
Our Mummy & Me Curl Experience was built on this premise to raise curly haired children who will never have to question the beauty of their hair texture, and who have the confidence to walk into rooms and spaces already knowing their curls are crowns.
Give your child the curl confidence you never had - [ Explore the Mummy and Me Curl Experience]
About In Her Mirror
In Her Mirror is an editorial storytelling series by Emerson – the Middle East’s first curl lifestyle destination – which explores how women with curly, textured hair see themselves in private, with a spotlight on that internal monologue that often causes us to second guess our curls. Shot in Dubai, the series captures identity, representation and the evolving narrative around curly hair and curl culture more broadly in the region.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/science-of-curl-clumping-get-defined-bouncy-curls

April 29, 2025•8 min read ★
TABLE OF CONTENTS
- Curl Clumping—What Is It?
 
- Best Products and Tools to Use for Curl Clumping
 
- Common Curly Hair Myths
 
- Conclusion
 
- FAQs
 
Curl Clumping—What Is It?
Curl clumping is a natural part of how curly hair behaves. It happens when strands of hair group together to form more defined, bouncy curls. The way your curls clump depends on your hair's natural structure and how much moisture it holds.
You can enhance curl clumping with the right techniques and products. Using a curl-defining cream, styling on wet hair, and applying gentle scrunching or brushing methods can help your curls come together beautifully.
The objective of clumping is to make curls more defined and thicker. It encourages hair to cohesively bunch together. The more strands per clump you have, the easier it is to see curl definition.
The Science of Clumping
According to curly hair science, the primary goal of curl clumping is to have defined curls. The process is driven primarily by moisture and the natural tendency of hair to form hydrogen bonds. When it’s wet, the moisture causes hair cuticle to swell, allowing strands to interact and align, which leads to clumping. 
Proper hydration, together with curl-enhancing products, boosts moisture and encourages clumping. Below is a more detailed explanation:
- 
Shape of the Hair FollicleThe shape of the hair follicle plays a key role in determining the type of curly hair. Round follicle produces straight hair, while flattened or oval ones lead to wavy, curly, or even coily hair.
 
- 
Moisture and Curl FormationWhether from water or products, moisture causes the hair cuticles to swell, breaking hydrogen bonds and allowing strands to manipulate better and shape curls. Moisturizing builds friction between hair strands, encouraging them to stick together.
- 
TechniqueGently manipulating wet hair, such as scrunching or shaking, can encourage clumping and define the natural curl pattern.
 
- 
Curl Enhancing ProductsProducts, such as curl creams or leave-in conditioners to wet hair, can boost clumping, creating defined curls.
Curl Clumping Techniques
Curly girls tend to focus more on hair ends than the roots to achieve defined curls.  Make sure that when styling your curls, the hair is completely wet from the roots to the tips. Keep in mind that if you don’t have good clumping from the top, the ends eventually will separate and frizz. 
- 
Glide ItSmooth out waves or loose curls by gliding the product through the strands to make them clump together.
 
- 
Rake and ShakeFor tighter curls or coils, the key is to ensure an even product distribution. After applying the product, shake your head from side to side. The action pulls strands together and also separates the clumps.
 
- 
Hands OffAfter styling your hair, the final step is to leave it alone. Avoid touching your curls because messing around with damp curls is the perfect way to disrupt the curl pattern and encourage frizz. No matter how beautiful your ringlets are, refrain from touching them.
 
- 
Diffusing Curly HairInstead of air-drying, diffusing hair can help curls clump together and create bouncier, bigger curls.
 
The Benefits of Clumping
There are numerous benefits to clumping curly hair. It primarily enhances definition, promotes longer-lasting hold, and manages frizz. Clumping also helps retain moisture, making curls less prone to stringiness and dryness. The following are some of the benefits of hair clumping:
- 
Frizz ControlClumping helps reduce flyaway and frizz by smoothing out individual strands to form cohesive clumps.
 
- 
Enhanced DefinitionClumping enables curls to group naturally, forming bigger, more defined sections compared to stringy, individual strands.
 
- 
Retains MoistureHair clumping helps retain hair moisture, which prevents stringiness and dryness.
 
- 
Longer-Lasting HoldClumps maintain the structure of curls and prevent individual strands from losing shape, resulting in longer-lasting curls.
 
- 
More DefinitionClumped curls look more uniform and fuller. It enhances the overall curly hair look.
 
- 
Better Product AbsorptionApplying curl-enhancing products to clumped curls ensures an even distribution and better absorption, which leads to more consistency.
 
- 
Less BreakageAvoid excessive combing and brushing that could damage the curl pattern. Clumping helps minimize breakage.
 
Best Products and Tools to Use for Curl Clumping
Focus on using products that result in moisture and curl formation. Moreover, products should have moisture-locking properties. Some tools can help you achieve the perfect curly look. Before using any product or technique, make sure that your hair is thoroughly wet before styling. 
PRODUCTS
- 
Leave-In ConditionersThey provide a hydration base and slip to create and define clumps.
 
- 
Lightweight Styling SerumsThese serums can add slip for easier clumping and definition.
 
- 
Curl CreamsThese creams can be layered after leave-in conditioners for extra definition and hydration.
 
- 
GelsGels are not only great at providing hold and locking moisture in, but they can also enhance clumping.
 
TOOLS
- 
CombsWide-tooth combs are best for defining and detangling curls, particularly for looser patterns.
 
- 
BrushesUse a boar-bristled brush to help fuse clumps. Paddle brushes with ball-tipped nylon bristles or those with wide-spaced bristles can help distribute and detangle.
 
- 
FingersUse fingers to section and manipulate hair while styling to create defined lumps.
 
TIPS
- 
Wet HairAgain, make sure hair is thoroughly wet before styling.
 
- 
Hair PartingPart hair into sections before applying products and styling.
 
- 
Diffusing Curly Hair or Air DryingAir-drying or diffusing curly hair can maintain volume and definition while minimizing frizz at the same time.
 
- 
ScrunchingScrunching further defines curls and encourages clumping.
 
Common Curly Hair Myths
There is no easy solution when it comes to curly hair. It’s important to bust some myths when it comes to following a special curly hair routine and taking care of your curls. 
Myth 1: Curly hair requires the same amount of conditioner as straight hair
The reality is that curly hair is drier than straight hair. This is because the scalp’s natural oils have difficulty traveling down the twists and turns of curls. Thus, curly hair requires more conditioner for more manageability and hydration. 
Myth 2: Heat does not damage curls
The belief that heat is okay to use for curly hair is probably the most harmful myth of all. Heat styling tools, like curling wands and flat irons, indeed, can damage curls. They can cause dryness, brittleness, and breakage. Choose heat-protectant products.   
Myth 3: Curls should be tamed
Curls thrive when allowed to express their natural texture and shape. Weighing down curls can lead to lifeless, flat strands. Embrace your curls and fall in love with their movement and bounce. 
Myth 4: Use lots of products
While curls may benefit from certain products, such as curl-enhancers or leave-in conditioners, using too much can weigh them down and cause build-up. The key is to find the right balance and use products that best fit the need of your curls.  
Myth 5: Shampoo is not good for curly hair
A shampoo is essential to clean the scalp and remove build-up from styling products. However, since curly hair has the tendency to be drier, using a moisturizing shampoo or a sulphate-free one and following up with a conditioner is key to keeping curls healthy.
Myth 6: Curls don’t need conditioning
Popular beliefs state that curls do not need regular conditioning. This is further from the truth since curls need regular conditioning to maintain health and vitality. Because of their spiral shape, curly hair is drier and more prone to breakage and frizz. Conditioning hydrates and nourishes curly strands, boosting softness, manageability, and shine. There are specially formulated conditioners for curly hair that can replenish moisture and enhance the natural beauty of your curls. 
Conclusion
Curly hair is amazingly diverse, and understanding its unique requirements is the key to keeping it beautiful and healthy. Curl clumping matters because it minimizes frizz, boosts hair definition, and helps create a fuller, more polished look. We, at Emerson, can provide you with techniques and the best products to achieve beautiful, bouncy curls. 
FAQs
1) Why is curly hair beautiful?
Curls offer versatility in styling, add texture and volume to hairstyles, and can showcase personality and individuality. 
2) Does combing curls cause hair loss?
Yes. Brushing too hard or over-brushing can do more harm than good. It can break or rip hair strands.
3) Can I style my curls without using a diffuser?
Instead of using a diffuser, you can diffuse curls by gently making sections. When blow-drying on low or medium heat, lift curls towards your scalp. 
4) How do I clump my curly hair?
Squish or scrunch your hair upwards to form into natural clumps. This method helps natural curls to soak up moisture. It is also an excellent method to tackle dry hair that’s difficult to style. 
5) What should I do if my curls don’t clump?
Without moisture or water, curls can’t survive, let alone clump. You need to thoroughly hydrate your curls. Make sure that it’s completely wet when shampooing and conditioning. 
6) How do I achieve defined curls?
Focus on hydrating and manipulating your hair while damp or wet to achieve defined curls. 
7) Can I achieve moisture and curl formation?
Yes. You can achieve moisture and curl formation by using a moisturizing shampoo and conditioner. After shampooing and conditioning, you can also apply a curl cream or a leave-in conditioner while your hair is still wet. 
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/seasonal-hair-care-keeping-your-curls-hydrated-in-summer

March 26, 2025•9 min read ★
TABLE OF CONTENTS
- Curly Hair and Climate
 
- Hydrate Your Curls in Summer
 
- Maintaining Moisture in Curly Hair
 
- Conclusion
- FAQs
Curly Hair and Climate
Curly hair is extremely beautiful and unique, no two heads of curly hair are the same. When nurturing your natural curls one external factor that can greatly impact your styling results and overall hair health is the climate and the change in seasons. 
A change in season typically equates to varying temperatures, humidity levels, and dew points, all of which can impact the appearance and health of curly hair textures.
Whilst it may sound overwhelming, making small tweaks to your curly hair routine in and out of seasons is key to maintaining healthy curls. In this blog post we explain how seasonal changes can impact your natural curls and recommend tweaks that can be made to your routine to ensure your curls still thrive.
How Different Seasons Impact Hair Health
- 
Summer
The high humidity during summer can contribute to frizz, while exposure to the sun can lead to hair dryness and damage. 
Tips: Consider using UV protection products, protective styles, and regular hydration - both inside and out, opt for water-based, lighter products to smooth the hair cuticle and a strong hold gel to keep flyaways at bay. 
- 
Spring and Fall
Fall and spring often entail a combination of dryness and a low degree of humidity which puts moisture balance into focus. 
Tips: Ensure you are deep conditioning regularly to provide your curls with a longer lasting dose of moisture. For low porosity curls, be sure to incorporate heat into your routine this allows for the cuticles to lift and open up, this enables better penetration of moisture in the hair shaft. 
Do not be afraid of oils, light sealing oils such as Andiroba and Pracaxi oils will help in limiting how quick moisture escapes from the hair shaft. The aim for curly hair in drier climates is maximum moisture retention and momentum.
- 
Winter
Indoor heating and dry air can zap moisture from curls leading to brittleness and dryness which often results in breakage if not managed appropriately. 
Tips: Similar to fall, your wash day routine should focus on rehydrating and moisturising whilst balancing with strengthening agents to promote breakage resistant curls.
Ensure you are utilising a sulfate free cleanser which is moisturising and not stripping, opt for moisture - protein balanced conditioning treatments to build back what your curls needs most to retain good elasticity - protein.
Seasonal Hair Care
As the seasons change, so do your curls needs. This is why a one size fits all approach to hair care and curl care, more specifically doesn’t work. Each season generates a new need for your curls, knowing how to adapt your curly hair routine through seasons is crucial for healthy, flourishing curls.
Dew Points and Curly Hair
Dew points can influence the behavior of curly hair textures under various weather conditions. The dew point is the temperature at which air must cool in order for it to be thoroughly saturated with moisture in the form of water vapour, both low and high dew can present more challenges for curly hair types, however mastering the techniques by adapting your hair care routine can make things significantly easier.
Dew Points and Moisture
Low Dew Points: Typically, dew points occur in the colder months. The lack of moisture due to dry air can make curls brittle and susceptible to breakage. 
High Dew Points: When the dew point is high, there is more moisture in the air. The excess moisture derived from increased humidity makes curly hair hold on to more moisture resulting in a moisture imbalance which could lead to loss of definition and frizz.  
Hydrate Your Curls in Summer
Summer can be particularly challenging for naturally curly hair since the combination of humidity and heat can lead to excessive dryness and frizz. The secret to dreamy, summer curls is lightweight moisture and strong hold stylers, alongside frequent conditioning treatments and heat protectants.
The UV rays from the sun can damage the hair cuticle, which opens the hair up to further damage, as the cuticle - the hair’s protective barrier becomes more fragile causing hair breakage. Furthermore, if you’re an avid swimmer, the chlorine from pools and saltwater from the sea can also strip hair of its natural oils, opting for sulfate free chelating shampoos or detox masks will restore balance and remove toxins and impurities from the hair and scalp.
8 Tips to Nourish Curly Hair During Summer
1. Protect Hair from the Sun
For curly hair care, sun protection is a must during summer. When you’re out in the sun for extended periods, wear a stylish scarf or a hat. Alternatively, consider use of a heat protectant after conditioning to provide an added layer of protection.
2. Hydration is Key
The first point of hydration for curly hair is your cleansing routine. Be sure to use a sulfate free cleanser which will rehydrate the hair whilst lifting dirt and residue. Choose products that are formulated specifically for curly hair and contain ingredients, particularly emollients and hydrating ingredients such as honey, marshmallow root, aloe vera.
3. Regular Deep Conditioning
Curly hair care in summer should involve a deep conditioning treatment at least once a week. This helps nourish the hair and replenish moisture. You can also use refreshers to boost moisture levels in between wash days.
4. Refrain from Heat Styling
Give curly hair a break from heat-styling tools, such as blow dryers and flat irons. These can further dry out and damage curls and cause leaving them weak and brittle. If you are not a fan of air drying your curls, choose to diffuse on low, cool setting.
5. Regular Trims
A great way to tame curls during summer is to stop split ends in the tracks before they move higher up the hair shaft, leading to further damage and ongoing frizz. Regular trims help to nip split unhealthy ends in the butt, ensuring your curls are truly healthy from root to tip, all summer long. 
6. Plenty of Water
Hydrate from within. Drinking plenty of water is another key to moisturizing curls. Drinking at least 8 glasses of water a day keeps not just your skin hydrated but your hair and scalp as well. If your body lacks the hydration needed, your hair will suffer as the body routes water and other essential nutrients to vital parts of your body first. 
7. Loosen Wet Hair
Whilst your curls are easiest to manipulate for styling when wet, refrain from pulling your curls into a tight ponytail or bun after showering or swimming. As your hair is already carrying additional water weight, unnecessary pressure can result in wet frizz, split ends, and breakage. If you want to keep hair away from your eyes, use a clip or a soft headband instead.
8. Clarify regularly
With frizz a key concern during the summer months, its important to provide your hair and scalp with a reset this will allow for better moisture absorption and reduce a moisture imbalance caused by moisture overload. Maintaining an optimal hair ph of 4.5 - 5.5 will aid a smooth hair cuticle and minimise frizz and flyaways caused by humidity and friction. It is not a myth that shampoos can minimise frizz which is important for curly hair types as noted in the article titled The Shampoo pH can Affect the Hair: Myth or Reality?
Maintaining Moisture in Curly Hair
The answer to high humidity during summer is moisture, lots of moisture, whether you have tight coils or fine curls. The more moisturized your hair is, the less likely it will react to moisture or need to draw moisture from the air. You can boost curly hair moisture with a summer hair routine using lightweight hair products such as refreshers, oil free serums.
Curly Hair Masks
Incorporate frequent conditioning treatments to your summer curly hair routine to replenish long lasting moisture along with nutrients your curls desperately need to remain healthy and fight of environmental aggressors. We have a range of instant and deep conditioning treatments that provide instant boost of curl nourishment. Choose a hair mask free of silicones which can often mask the true condition of your curls, natural high performance conditioners can restore even the driest of curls. To maximise the benefits of conditioning treatments, use them weekly.
Leave-In Conditioners
Leave-in conditioners are perfect for all-natural curly hair types in summer. Choose a lightweight leave-in product that’s packed with natural moisturizers, including shea butter, avocado oil, marshmallow root or aloe vera.
Refreshers and Hair Mists
A hydrating mist delivers moisture on the go to halt humidity in its track. Spritz a mixture of hydrating ingredients including glycerin, coconut oil and aloe vera thoroughly in your curls.
Conclusion
Adapting curly hair routines to the changing seasons, particularly in summer is the key to maintaining beautiful, healthy curls. By understanding how each season impacts your curly hair and making several adjustments to your routine, you can be certain that your gorgeous locks will remain well-nourished and vibrant. Hair care in all kinds of weather is essential, whatever your hair type may be. 
FAQs
1) What happens to curly hair in summer?
The salt, chemicals, and chlorine in the sea and swimming pools can leave curls looking dry, dull, and lifeless. Furthermore, prolonged exposure to the elements can damage your beautiful curls.
2) Do I need to deep condition more during summer?
It’s very important to deep condition your curls during summer, particularly if you’re spending a lot of time under the sea, sun, or pool. 
3) How do I keep my curls moisturised?
You can moisturise curly hair by using a leave-in conditioner that smooths curls, keeps them hydrated, and moisturised.
4) Do I need to use a protective hairstyle in summer?
Yes. Protective hairstyles like twists and braids can prevent breakage and tangles and help retain moisture.
5) Why do my curls look less curly in summer?
Prolonged exposure to the sun rays can damage the hair cuticle, the outermost hair layer, which makes holding a curl more difficult. 
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/selecting-curl-shampoo-solutions-uae

September 17, 2024•6 min read ★
What is the best shampoo for curly hair?
This is an extremely generic question and if a curly hair specialist responds without an assessment of the health of your hair through a series of questions or a hands-on assessment of your curls, we suggest you dismiss the recommendation! Sounds harsh? Possibly, but we are here to educate you the right way about your curls, so you can make the best product selection that supports the health of your unique curls.
Choosing the best shampoo for curly hair in the UAE
Choosing the best shampoo for curly hair in the UAE, requires a consideration for the climate and geographic specific nuances for example hard water is a common issue in middle eastern countries due to a lack of regular rainfall, as such the region’s water supply is primarily sourced from desalinated seawater, which is known for its high mineral content, particularly calcium and magnesium according to an article published by Purolite. Let’s run through what determines a shampoo best suited to curly hair in the UAE.
What is a shampoo?
Firstly, let’s understand what we mean by shampoo. A shampoo is a type of cleanser that is largely composed of water, ranging between 40-70%. Shampoos contain surfactants and foam boosters amongst other ingredients to lift dirt and debris, increase the spreadability and lathering capabilities of the product. Shampoos are specifically formulated with a slightly higher acidity level with a ph level higher than that of a conditioner in order to effectively lift dirt from the scalp and hair shaft. Without getting too scientific, we want shampoos that contain surfactants which are anionic – negatively charged. Hair typically carries a net negative charge, so we want negative + negative charge – not a case of opposites attracts in this instance as that will result in product binding to the hair. What we want is a shampoo that doesn’t bind to the hair shaft, therefore, similarly a negative charge.
Foam boosters in shampoos for curly hair textures are recommended as it enables increase spreadability of the shampoo through the length of the hair shaft, meaning it can pass through the varies kinks, curls and bends of curly hair structures easily.
What type of shampoo is suited to curly hair textures?
Sulfate-free shampoos for curly hair types have gained popularity and there’s a reason for this. As with any viral or popular method it’s important not to just follow a trend but understand the principles of a method and its application. Let’s unpack this.
Sulfates are a popular type of surfactant used in many commercial shampoos. In a nutshell, they are a harsh detergent that contain significant stripping capabilities. The downside of sulfates is the stripping of both good and bad oils and other build up, leaving the hair extremely dry and potentially feeling rough. The upside is they will leave your hair and scalp squeaky clean and free of oils and product build up. In the context of curly hair, this is a challenge to get around as curly hair naturally is more prone to dryness because of its unique structure. However, there is hope as brands such as Inashi have brought Sulfate Free Clarifying Shampoos to market which have the same stripping capabilities without the harshness of sulfates – a win-win for the curly hair market!
If you are following the Curly Girl Method you can now understand why the use of sulfates particularly in shampoos is not encouraged and advised to be avoided.
An alternative to the sulfates in a shampoo is Cocamidopropyl betaine which allows for oil to be removed with water – remember water and oil in standard form repel each other. According to an article published by Medical News Today, Cocamidopropyl betaine is a suitable replacement for Soduim Lauryl Sulfate (SLS) which is a harsher more drying surfactant.
To make the best shampoo selection for your curls, it’s important to know what your options are. Below is a list of the various types of shampoos, their purpose along with the recommended usage.
Types of Shampoos & Cleansers for Curly Hair
Let’s now view all of this in the context of a Middle Eastern country such as the UAE. You want to stay clear of shampoos containing sulfates where possible, as we already struggle with the negative effects of harsh water and the mineral build up that comes with it, couple this with regularly use of sulfates this can lead to your curls becoming chronically dry and damaged.
To answer the question of what is the best shampoo for curly hair in Dubai and UAE, we advise two of the three shampoos noted above. Firstly, a moisturising shampoo is essential for regular use and as we’ve noted in previously blog posts, cleansing is a key way to rehydrated curly hair textures, a moisturising shampoo will gently lift dirt without drying out the hair shaft. In hot and at times extremely humid climates, curly hair requires the regular impartation of hydration and moisture to thrive.
This combined with a clarifying or chelating shampoo is crucial to retain healthy curls as well as allow your hair to enjoy the benefits of your moisturising and styling effects by providing your curls with a complete reset, leaving you with a clean slate, free of build up and mineral deposits.
FAQs
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/stress-related-curly-hair-loss

January 08, 2025•7 min read ★
In trying to look for appropriate hair loss solutions, we often find people automatically default to looking for a magic serum or oil that will re grow their hair at record speed. If you’ve been following our blog posts for a while, you will note that we provide practical and targeted recommendations for curly hair textures and hair solutions more broadly and advise on realistic timeframes for free real, sustainable results.
Today’s post deals with a topic that is often brushed past in the general discussion around hair loss and our understanding of its root causes.
In our previous post Best Hair Growth Products in Dubai, UAE, we highlighted that stress is one of the primary drivers of hair loss. Stress can manifest itself in various forms, what we often hear about is stress linked to jobs, lifestyles or unexpected life events and the hormonal disruptions or pressure this can often put on our bodies. However, there is a specific type of stress that is rarely addressed - oxidative stress and more explicitly scalp related oxidative stress. We will explore this in detail starting with the basics and ways to prevent this from occurring:
2. The link between oxidative stress and hair loss
3. Minimising the effects of oxidative stress on the scalp
4. Key ingredients to look for which support scalp health
1. What is Oxidative Stress?
Oxidative stress occurs where an imbalance of free radicals and antioxidants is present in the body. The imbalance where a high degree of free radicals are present when compared with antioxidants. Where this occurs, there is significant risk that the free radicals can begin to negatively impact bodily cells and tissue.
According to Cleveland Clinic , free radicals are recognised as unstable oxygen molecules when uncontrolled can cause considerable damage.
While temporary occurrences of this imbalance can be managed by the body, long term imbalances present considerable risk leading to various medical conditions not limited to scalp and skin conditions.
2. The link between oxidative stress and hair loss
The increase of free radicals in the body corresponds to an insufficient amount of antioxidants. Antioxidants have considerable ability to fight and defend the body against free radicals through their neutralising impact.
You maybe wondering why does this matter in the context of haircare. When excessive amounts of free radicals roam freely in the body, this can lead to damage of celluar structures by attacking enzymes, lipids, proteins and mutating DNA.
Let’s revisit the origin of hair, at its very core our hair structure is made of a number of amino acids which bond to form the protein we all know as Keratin - this makes up more than 90% of the hair’s structure .
Where the binding structure of the hair is depleted it can only lead to a weakening of the hair shaft which ultimately results in hair loss.
Hair loss of course, starts from the root meaning it’s strands are lost at a follicular level in the scalp. The primary impact of oxidative stress on the scalp can be seen through lipid peroxidation which in simple terms refers the oxidative degradation of lipids. As noted in a paper titled Lipids to the top of hair biology by Kurt Stenn and Pratima Karnik. Lipids form the glue that enforces the hair follicles and is a form of first line defence and to some extent determines what is allowed in and out of cells in our body.
Where lipids are altered, damaged or eroded it can lead to clinical follicle disorders such as Seborrheic dermatitis and some forms of alopecia. While technological advancements have made lipid replacement therapy available, prevent measures must be taken to minimise reoccurrence and a rebuilding of the body’s defence - this can be done via internal and external measures.
3. Minimising the effects of oxidative stress on the scalp
The impact of oxidative stress on the scalp can be reduced through the consumption and application of antioxidants. The most effective methods of application of antioxidants on the scalp is primarily through a cleansing product and secondary methods include use of other scalp related products such as scrubs, serums or oils.
In our post, understanding the importance of cleansing correctly, we emphasise the importance of choosing the right cleansers for curly hair textures. In today’s day and age of social media influencing, it’s easy to get caught up and envy other people’s curls and their styling results but remember behind every picture of beautiful curls is a great cleansing routine.
When your curls are correctly cleansed, hydrated and retain good elasticity your styling results will reflect that.
By using cleansers that include powerful antioxidants in the formulation, found in ingredients containing Vitamin A, C and E and Polyphenols (Categories of Polyphenols as noted by Skin Type Solutions) include: Flavoniads, Phenolic acids and Polyphenolic amides - will promote increased hydration to the scalp, greater blood circulation and nutrient supply to scalp cells to better defend against free radicals, regenerate damaged cells and tissues hence promote hair growth and overall hair vitality.
4. Key ingredients to look for which support scalp health
Since Oxidative stress on the scalp is mainly caused by damaged cellular structure due to a low degree of antioxidants present in the body as a defence. It’s crucial that cleansers containing a high concentration of antioxidants are included in your hair regimen. Your scalp and hair will benefit from the infusion of antioxidants back into the scalp cells through the follicles. The first place to start is scalp cleansing, the cleanser you use is key. We’ve evaluated various cleansers for curly hair and focused on those that provide a high concentration of antioxidants to build better and strong defence, these include:
• Slippery Lime Shampoo by Healthy Hair Studio by Enitan
Lime is the third ingredient which provides this cleanser with supercharged antioxidant power. Lime is rich in flavonoids which have been scientifically proven to protect and defend against oxidative stress whilst providing your curls with that much need moisture from root to tip.
• Curls Blueberry Bliss Reparative Hair Wash
A rich and creamy cleansed packed with Organic Blueberry Extract to deliver antioxidant benefits straight to the scalp. The benefits of blueberries for curly hair is two fold it stimulates the hair follicles leading to increased hair growth and provides a strong line of defence against free radicals.
• As I Am Olive & Tea Tree Dandruff Shampoo
Whilst this cleanser contains a slightly lower concentration of citrus based antioxidants, the shampoo contains olive oil which contains a considerable amount of nutrients and a high oleuropein content which is known to provide good defence against oxidative stress.
• Camille Rose Sweet Ginger Cleansing Rinse
With Ginger root as the second ingredient in this shampoo your hair and scalp’s defence against oxidative stress is secure as research has shown Ginger extract does its part in reducing oxidation by decreasing peroxidaton of the lipid layer of the scalp cells.
Investing in clean, naturally derived potent haircare is crucial for all hair types but most especially curly hair which is prone to moisture loss at a faster pace than other textures. The fight against scalp related oxidative stress is a constant one which requires ongoing defence for all hair textures but more so curly hair textures. Good scalp care is the foundation of healthy curls, this aspect of a healthy hair regimen should not be rushed or considered unimportant.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/summer-curl-care

August 01, 2024•6 min read ★
Maintaining dreamy curl definition in the summer months is most certainly an art and a science.
Contrary to popular belief, it is possible to maintain healthy luscious curl definition during seasons of hotter temperatures and increased humidity, especially in the Middle East.
The general consensus is that due to the structural features inherent in curly hair - particularly the natural bends and kinks that give curly hair its shape, it’s not possible for styling results to be long lasting, more specifically last beyond Day 1 or 2 after wash day in climates with high humidity such as the UAE. Humidity simply is in an environment where water vapour is present in the air and textured hair draws on it to meet its natural need for moisture.
There is a saying we often hear in the curly hair community - “Frizz is a curl waiting to happen”, a phrase coined by Lorraine Massey, Founder of the Curly Girl Method. We believe this is a great form of encouragement to newbies starting out on their curly hair journey. However, it’s also important to understand that scientifically speaking frizz can be managed and minimised. (Note: we didn’t say completely eliminated!)
In managing frizz it’s important to consider three key things:
- 
Current state and health of your hair - for best results your hair must be clean, hydrated and free of product build up. 
- 
The number of products used when styling 
- 
Lastly, but most important the key ingredients included in your products. 
We will provide you with our expert tips backed by science, including frequency of use and correct application to ensure your curly hair products deliver moisture, definition and frizz control.
We emphasise this time and time again - ingredients matter, we do not recommend products based on marketing claims or gimmicks. We evaluate product formulations, extensively research and test before providing any product recommendations particularly when building a personalised regimen via our E consultation service .
Product ingredients are a key building block in achieving the results you desire. In this case minimising frizz and longer lasting curl definition.
Think of product ingredients as a secret weapon. When managing frizz it’s crucial to look for products that contain Polyquats such as:
- Polyquaternium-69
- Polyquaternium-55
- Polyquaternium-7
- Polyquaternium-10
- Polyquaternium-11
Alternative ingredients include Guar Hydroxypropyltrimonium, PVP (Polyvinylpyrrolidone)
Key Ingredients for Frizz Free Curls
They are cationic in nature which basically means positively charged. Therefore, naturally compatible with our hair that is negatively charged in its raw, clean state.
Polyquaternium-69 as an example, acts as a water-repellent by providing a hydrophobic layer on the hair’s surface. This enables it to prevent moisture absorption from the air, a natural cause of humidity, which is often seen with popular humectants and emollients.
It’s true value lies in its ability to retain amazing curl definition, even when hair is exposed to high humidity for extremely long periods of time.
An example of how high up this is in the ingredients list in Jessicurl's Spirialicious Styling Gel.
Remember as a general rule of thumb, the first 5 ingredients in any cosmetic product makes up the bulk of the product formulation as they will contain a higher concentration.
Why does it matter?
Scientifically speaking, cationic ingredients neutralise the negative charges on hair strands that cause hair to become static aka frizzy, dry or tangled.
Your Summer Curly Hair Must Haves
We have specifically curated a selection of your summer curly hair hero products which contain frizz taming ingredients which you can rely on here
If you prefer soft, flexible definition and hold these should be your go to stylers, or base stylers if you have normal to thick hair density:
Curl cream
Cachos combing crème (now Rios Curls)
- 
This is our best-selling curl cream which can serves as a one and done product - a leave in and styler, particularly if you have fine hair density. We recommend you avoid overloading your strands. 
- 
This cream has a wonderful consistency and provides enough slip that it simply melts into the hair strands regardless of hair porosity. Ensure you emulsify your styling products to ensure effective distribution along your strands. 
Curl serum
Treluxe Reflex Curl Styling Serum
- 
This gem of a product doesn’t receive the attention it deserves! It has a lightweight slippery consistency to glide through every curve and bend of your curl pattern to deliver hydrated, bouncy and defined curls. 
- 
If not used as the main styler it can be used as the last step in your styling routine to break the gel cast or scrunch out the crunch (SOTC) 
For greater definition with a medium hold opt for one of these styler options:
Curl Lotion
Jessicurl Confident Coils Styling Solution
- 
A curl enhancer in lotion form that defines the tightest of coils and kinks, consider this your styler option for curl definition, elongation and medium hold. However, a powerhouse of a styler when paired with Jessicurl’s Spiralicious Styling Gel! This is a concentrated product so start with a little and gradually build for greater definition. 
Curl Gels
Breahni Light Styling Gel
- 
Your option for a soft to medium hold and defined, elongated curls. The perfect gel option for curls with fine to medium density and looser curl patterns – wavy and loose curls. 
Jessicurl Spiralicious Styling Gel
- 
If want extra strong hold and definition, this is your perfect one and done styler, be sure to ensure your strands are soaking wet and primed with a leave in conditioner before applying. 
Curl Mousse
The Doux Mousse Def
- 
A viral sensation for a clear reason - this texture foam delivers weightless volume and hold while sculpting your curls into shape, for definition without the stiffness. 
Mielle Brazilian Curly Cocktail Curl Mousse
- 
A curly girl’s dream for soft, lightweight and bouncy curls with the added benefit of frizz control. 
How to use?
Consider using curly hair products with these ingredients in your summer styling routine, either as the first styler or final styler before drying and you’ll enjoy extra days of frizz free styling! When refreshing curls, we highly recommend you first spray your hair with water, this helps with reactivation of existing products and go in with a small amount of your styler which contains polyquats for each section.
Frequency of use?
No more than every 4 days whilst ensuring you incorporate a clarifying wash day into your hair regime at least every 3-4 weeks to avoid significant build up. A clarifying wash can be a clarifying shampoo such as Inahsi Soothing Mint Clarifying Shampoo or a Hair Detox such as Innersense Detox Mask
If you’re unsure of what products are right for you, please feel free to reach out to our team of curl experts who will provide you with everything you need based on your unique curl pattern, density, porosity and hair concern/s.
Contact us
Whatsapp: +971 (0) 58 565 1076
Email: info@emersonhairandbeauty.com
Instagram: @emerson.beauty
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/summer-curl-edit-humidity-proof-curly-hair-gulf

July 22, 2025•8 min read ★
Every summer, we hear this one sentence on repeat, whether it’s through E consultations or DMs:
“I just need a strong hold gel to get my curls to last longer and reduce frizz from Dubai heat and humidity.”
We recognise this is the #1 frustration for curly hair in Dubai, UAE and the wider Middle East when the extreme summer weather conditions hit.
Unfortunately, the story is always similar, you spent a good deal of time on what you think is a solid wash day routine, only for your curl definition to disappear and frizz make an appearance by the afternoon following wash day, call it Day 2 if you’re lucky.
What most people fail to realise is that it takes more than a strong hold gel for your curls to thrive in 45-degree heat and 90% humidity. You need a curated curly hair routine that’s fit for the climate, aligned with your porosity and sealed for curl longevity.
Why Most Curl Products Don’t Work In Middle Eastern Heat
The climate in the Middle East is unique, and of course given cities like Dubai were once pure deserts, it’s not a surprise that we experience things like scorching dry heat one season to suffocating humidity in the peak of the summer season, all while your curls navigate mineral build up from hard water and excess sun exposure. These are some of the challenges for curly hair in the region. 
Finding the best curly hair products that can effectively tackle all of these can be difficult, but not impossible. 
It’s a case of understanding how your curls behave in this environment and tailoring a curly routine suited to the climate and your curl behaviour – which is visible derivative of your curl porosity.
Not every curl product is suited to summer curls in the Middle East, some leave tacky build up, some too heavy but work well in the cooler months, but in the summer just leave your curls weighed down and greasy, others just curdle when mixed. 
We understand the idea behind trying different products, especially where your curls constantly feel dry and brittle from sun exposure. The truth is, the better you understand your curl behaviour, the more you understand what they need. We explore this in depth in our post on Why Your Curls Lose Moisture in 8 Seconds Flat in Middle Eastern Humidity.
Layering products to seal moisture and curl definition and structure is key for curls that last. More importantly layering products that are compatible both performance and ingredient wise is essential for thriving summer curls.
The Ritual That Changes Everything
You don’t need to wash and condition or refresh daily for beautiful summer curls. You need smarter layering and a porosity based curl routine - this is how to keep curls defined in extreme heat and humidity.
The Summer Curl Edit works because it delivers a complete, expertly curated curly hair layering routine for curls based on porosity – whether you have low-medium or high porosity curls, there is a ritual made for you. 
There is a proven method behind each product and each step. It’s not a random product bundle.
Each step plays a role:
- Prep - this is your base for resetting your strands pH for better product absorption
- Prime - This is your anchor for hydration and cuticle smoothing
- Base Styler - Your definer that aids curl clumping without the crunch
- Finishing Styler - to seal in moisture and form a protective barrier
Three key things this edit was tested for to ensure delivery of real results:
- Ingredient compatibility
- Texture and application
- pH harmony
Why Most Curly Hair Routines Fail?
Ingredient Compatibility: The Overlooked Secret
Humidity proof curls start with products that work well together, not just individually. Every product has its place in delivering hydration and long lasting curl definition.
We've all experimented with curly hair products and know what curdling looks like, but did you know it is possible for products not to work well together and yet still not curdle?
Many curl routines fail because of ingredient incompatibility, even if each product seems to work well on its own. This is often due to:
- Varying pH levels
- Heavy loads of emollients
- Moisture-protein imbalance
- Formulas that repel rather than penetrate
A Real Life Example: What Happens with Low Porosity Curls
Low porosity curls - use of a heavy butter based leave in followed by a protein rich styler and an oil as a sealant.
Low porosity curls naturally repel water, as a result a heavy butter based leave in will only leave your curls coated and congested.
If you then follow that with a protein rich styler, two things will happen:
- Protein cannot correctly bind as it needs direct access to damp and clean hair.
- The strands are already overloaded as the protein just sits on top, causing strands to feel dry and brittle.
The end result? 
A heavy barrier that blocks real hydration and protein from entering the hair shaft. You may see defined curls on Day 1 but by Day 2 you'll be left with curls that feel dry, coated and frizz begins to build.
Why the Summer Curl Edit works
The difference lies in the formulation architecture designed for curly hair in cities like Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Riyadh and Doha. Each product, ingredient works in harmony - no clashes, no curdling.
The layering system aligns with observed curl porosity behaviour, has been tested to promote product absorption for better hydration, definition and humidity resistance that doesn’t suffocate your curls.
Dew vs Quench - Curl rituals tailored to your porosity
One edit, two pathways. Why? The key influence on your choice of products should and must always be your curl porosity. Whether you have Type 3A or Type 4C curls if both curl types are high porosity, the types of products you need will be the same with slight variation in product quantity depending on hair length and density. 
Introducing: The Quench Ritual (For High Porosity Curls)
Tailored to high porosity curls which crave hydrated, sculpted and humidity resistant curls.
The ritual layering system includes:
Step 1: The Doux Fast Forward Conditioner
- The first line of defense for your curls - the prep layer. 
 
- This is where humidity and frizz protection starts.
- The Doux Fast Forward rinse out conditioner contains unique bond technology to reduce curl porosity by filling in gaps in the hair cuticle which causes moisture to evaporate quickly.
 
Step 2: TréLuxe Aloe Vera Primer
- This is where moisture meets performance. Aloe, coconut, and avocado oils hydrate without heaviness
- A pH for stylers to grip and glide properly and minimise surface frizz.
- This primer is your styling foundation that allows for buildable hydration.
Step 3: Uncle Funky’s Daughter Curly Magic
- This cult classic styling gel has unmatched slip for curl definition with bounce and memory.
- Clumping curls effortlessly while laying the foundation for a long-lasting definition and cast.
- This is where curl formation begins to amplify.
 
Step 4: Innersense I Create Hold
- This plant based gel builds a breathable cast with strong hold and zero flaking - with a deeply concentrated formula (a little goes a long way!)
- Paired with Uncle Funky's Daughter Curly Magic you'll enjoy perfect curl definition, memory and sculpted hold.
Introducing: The Dew Ritual (For Low to Medium Porosity Curls)
Tailored to low to medium porosity curls which crave lightweight, buildable, defined and volumised curls.
Watch the Dew Ritual in action here by Irene, Senior Curly Hair Specialist. This step by step reel shows exactly how to layer products that for curls that last and hold up in heat and humidity whilst keep them soft and frizz free.
The ritual layering system includes:
Step 1: Uncle Funky's Daughter Midnite Train
- Your curl reset and first hydration anchor.
- This lightweight mist rehydrates, smooths and set your base.
- Resets your strands pH level to minimise surface frizz.
Step 2: Kinky Curly Knot Today
- A holy grail for a reason - legendary slip and instant softness.
- This works in tandem with your stylers to prime, soften and moisturise curls without residue or buildup.
Step 3: The Doux Mousse Def
- A viral curl mousse is an instant hit for a reason.
- This weightless texture enhancing foam delivers curl definition, memory and the added lift every curly wants.
- It contains Polyquats and PVP - must have ingredients for an effective frizz free curly hair routine. 
 
Learn more about which ingredients are essential for defined, long lasting summer curls in this must read guide to summer curl care here.
Step 4: TreLuxe Hi Definition Gel
- The finishing layer for sculpted hold and seal. 
 
- This step seals softness, definition into structure. 
 
- Formulated with a botanical complex, this defining gel locks in shape while keeping curls touchable and light.
This is not just a collection of curly hair products. It’s a strategic product layering system - performance tested, stylist approved for frizz free, humidity proof curls in the peak of the Middle Eastern summer.
Unsure of your porosity or which ritual in the Summer Curl Edit is right for you?
Explore the Edit Made For Curls That Demand More in Heat and Humid Climates.
Limited Edition. Only available this Summer.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/the-doux-mousse-def-review

January 19, 2026•5 min read ★
Mousse and foams have been misunderstood in most curly hair routines and placed in the box of too light, soft hold and primarily considered a volumizing styling product. In Dubai, Riyadh and Doha summer heat, that translates to very unlikely to keep curls defined and intact through high humidity. In reality, mousse can yield different results based on the product formulation, order in your curly hair routine and application technique.
The Doux Mousse Def is a one of the few mousses that delivers through the seasons, even in high heat, humidity and cool weather. This precisely why it remains a key best seller at Emerson.
If you’re curious to know whether it truly lives up to the hype, here's our expert verdict.
What Makes The Doux Mousse Def Different From Other Curly Hair Stylers
Most traditional hair mousses and foams lean towards being airy, soft formulated for quick cosmetic pay off that doesn't last. Mousse Def showcases haircare innovation at its best, it's a key contributor to the foam renaissance we highlighted in our 2026 trend report.
It's product performance comes from it's defining ability, dual hold system, supported by hair conditioning benefits.
Here's how the product formulation delivers amazing curl definition and humidity protection:
- 
Dual Film Forming Hold System - There are few products on the market that offer this and give consistent results with each use. Jessicurl Spirialious Styling Gel is one of them, hence it remains a curly girl classic. The hold comes from the combination of Polyquaternium 55 + PVP. Polyquaternium-55 is a humidity resistant curl memory polymer, that forms a flexible and breathable film around the hair to retain the curls shape even if moisture levels vary. PVP reinforces the structure by adding definition and longevity without the rigidity hard to break cast associated with extreme hold gels and sprays. 
Why does this matter? Instead of leaning into weight or stiffness for hold, the formula in this product creates a lightweight structural net around the curl. This is how curls stay defined even in peak heat and humidity in the UAE. 
- 
Cleansing Grade Foam Technology (Why it applies evenly) - Mousse and Foams are known for softness but if not worked into curls properly you may find disproportionate hold. Mousse Def contains an ingredient most commonly found in cleansers to improve spreadability - Cocamidopropyl Hydroxysultaine. Smart inclusion of this product allows the styler to distribute evenly through curly hair, improving absorption and drying time.
Why does this matter? Uneven styling results can be frustrating- as you can find frizz in some sections, too much hold in another. This ingredient ensures even distribution, and the results across curly types are consistent. The hype around this foam isn't overexaggerated it's proven! 
- 
Intentional Hydration ( Surface Conditioning) - Hydration is present in the product formula through Aloe and Glycereth 2 Cocoate but not overloaded. This allows moisture to penetrate without the heaviness of rich emollients.
Why does this matter? Humectant rich stylers do not hold up well in extreme heat and humidity as they can lead to moisture overload in humidity, as the humectant draws moisture from the air, unless paired with a compatible top layer that provides hold with the added film former. Mousse Def supports hydration already in your routine from cleansing and conditioning without allowing humidity to take control. 
- 
Structural Support (Without Stiffness) - Unlike heavier proteins, silk amino acids do not stiffen curls, they enhance how the curls feel by filing in small gaps in the hair shaft, which supports better definition and hold. Silk Amino Acids are small, lightweight proteins that improve slip and support elasticity and bounce.
Why does this matter? Your curls stay touchable, flexible and resilient. 
- 
Why It Layers So Well With Strong Hold Gels - The product formulation of this curly hair mousse is structurally complete, however it allows for a strong seal. Polyquaternium-55 and PVP create shape without rigidity and the conditioning benefits are light and controlled, with no heavy oils or butters. This enables strong hold gels to sit well on top to seal the styling results, hence this pairs well with many medium to strong hold gels.
Why does this matter? It also for effective product layering for styling longevity. Curl definition that last beyond Day 3, doesn't have to be unrealistic. Smart layering with this product can extend your styling results before Day 3 with ease. 
See it in use by stylist Irene as part of Summer Curl Edit, here
Does This Curly Hair Foam Live Up To The Hype?
At Emerson, we don't buy into virality or fast moving trends, we curate products based on performance, formulation integrity and climate suitability for curly in the UAE and GCC.
We give The Doux Mousse Def a 10/10. This product works as it helps:
- Improve curl clumping
- Defines with supporting hold
- Humidity resistant for frizz free results
- Leaves curls soft, touchable and not coated
- Great product compatibility with medium-strong hold gels
This is why The Doux Mousse Def continues to be one of the most relied-on stylers at Emerson.
Designed to deliver curl definition that holds through heat, humidity and seasonal shifts, it proves that lightweight foam formulas can offer curl definition , longevity and touchable results without stiffness.
If your curls need definition that performs beyond the weather forecast, this is a styler worth building your routine around. At Emerson, The Doux range is curated specifically for curly and textured hair in the Middle East that need curl definition and humidity protection. Available at Emersonhairandbeauty.com
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/the-importance-of-deep-conditioning-in-curly-tips-and-product

February 13, 2025•9 min read ★
TABLE OF CONTENTS
- Why Deep Conditioning is Essential for Curly Hair Health
- How often to Deep Condition Based on the Type of Curly Hair
 
- Best Ingredients to Look for in a Deep Conditioner
- Step-by-step guide to deep conditioning at home
- Top Recommended Deep Conditioners for Different Curls
- Conclusion
- FAQs
Why Deep Conditioning is Essential for Curly Hair Health
Deep conditioning curly hair could be considered a hydration boost with lots of essential nutrients penetrating the hair, making it healthier and softer. It’s a fundamental practice that could transform dry, brittle hair into shiny, smooth, and manageable. Deep conditioning is a special treatment that’s beyond regular shampoos and conditioners, with a heavier concentration, penetrating deeper into the hair for extra nourishment.
Deep conditioning treatment for curly hair once a week or every couple of weeks, will reduce roughness, frizz, and dryness over time, restoring the health of your hair. The process takes more time and effort since hair needs the chance to absorb all moisture and nutrients into the hair shaft effectively. Nonetheless, once it does, the added moisture is a miracle for detangling, shine, softness, and manageability. 
You might have heard about ‘hair spas’ in salons nowadays. It’s nothing but deep conditioning. You can do it at home by yourself, at half the cost!
How often to Deep Condition Based on the Type of Curly Hair
Curly hair care routine includes deep conditioning. In general, you can start by doing it once a month and move up to once a week. Make sure to set it for at least fifteen minutes, and up to thirty minutes if you have severely damaged strands or split ends. The following are some factors that determine how often you should deep condition your curly hair and when it is recommended. 
- 
If You Regularly Heat Style
Although you should use a leave-in heat protectant for hair when you’re heat styling, exposing hair to high temperatures still leads to excessive dryness. Thus, you may want to do a deep conditioning treatment more often, possibly twice a week. Furthermore, keep in mind that there are also other ways to add style and body to your hair. 
- 
If You Spend a Lot of Time Outdoors
Sun exposure, in general, could have various benefits for your curly hair. The Vitamin D you get from the sun helps stimulate hair follicles, and many people have experienced the free natural highlights you get with sun-lightened strands. However, too much sun exposure could be damaging. Just like the skin, it could damage the hair cuticle, which leads to split ends and breakage. 
Make deep conditioning a routine at least once a week if you spend a lot of time outdoors to help fight excessive dryness and restore moisture lost. 
- 
If You’re an Avid Swimmer
Chlorine could leave your skin irritated and your hair dry. Furthermore, it removes your skin and hair’s natural oils, leaving you with drier strands prone to damage. If swimming is a regular part of your lifestyle, it’s essential to deep condition your hair more often. 
- 
If You Have Color Treatments
Color, just like styling can dry out your hair. After a professional color treatment, consider deep conditioning your hair to offset any moisture loss. Many salons nowadays offer deep conditioning treatments as an additional service.
Best Ingredients to Look for in a Deep Conditioner
There is a myriad of curly hair deep conditioning products in the market today. The best deep conditioners for curly hair could have a mix of moisture and protein, or simply be protein-free to provide as much moisture as possible. What ingredients should you look for in a deep conditioner?
The top deep conditioners for curly hair should include these ingredients:
- Fatty alcohols, such as acetyl
- Emollients like oils and butter
- Behentrimonium chloride or methosulfate
- Hydrolyzed proteins and amino acids
- Humectants, such as glycerin, aloe vera, and propylene glycol
 
Keep in mind that deep conditioners have ingredients that have a positive charge. This makes your hair soft, smooth, and flexible. These ingredients will stay on until your next hair wash or shampoo. 
Step-by-step Guide to Deep Conditioning at Home
When it comes to your curly hair care routine, there are numerous curly hair deep conditioning products to choose from. It’s important to choose the right product for you to ensure success in your deep conditioning at home. How to deep condition curly hair? Check out the following.
- 
Choose Your ProductWhen you look for the best deep conditioners for curly hair, the many choices could be overwhelming. Nevertheless, keep in mind that deep conditioning treatments work best when applied on clean hair. Choose a shampoo that suits you best. Make sure to wash your hair in such a way that the scalp is free of dirt and excess oil. Still, the shampoo you choose should not strip hair of its essential oils. Since there are so many choices when it comes to the best deep conditioners for curly hair, it’s important to choose one that works best for your curls.
 
- 
Apply Deep ConditionerAfter shampooing, carefully apply the deep conditioner to the hair shaft. Make sure that the hair ends are well coated with the product. Refrain from applying too near the hair roots. Use a wide-toothed comb to distribute it to your hair evenly.
 
 
- 
Allow the Conditioner to Set InAllow the conditioner to sit on your hair for half an hour. Since different products come with their leave-in instructions, adhere to the directions of your chosen product.
 
- 
If Required, Use HeatSome products require blow drying of your hair. In such instances, the heat enables the product to get absorbed in the hair properly. If your product requires you to do so, then use heat. Nevertheless, make sure that the settings are not too high.
 
- 
Wash with Cool WaterFinally, washing with cool water enables the hair cuticles to close. Drying your hair naturally yields the best results. Ideally, deep conditioning curly hair should be done once or twice a week to maintain hair health.
 
 
Top Recommended Deep Conditioners for Different Curls
There are so many curly hair deep conditioning products to choose from. There are hydrating hair masks for curly hair, and moisturizing deep conditioners for curls, to name a few. The following are some of the best products available in the market today.
It’s like an instant makeover for damaged, color-treated, or dry hair. It’s a luxurious deep conditioner with raw honey for shiner, and softer tresses, as well as olive and jojoba oils that heal and nourish. The result is curly hair that never looked so good. Furthermore, it reduces dry itchy scalp and flakiness.
This conditioner helps replenish and hydrate hair. Enriched with natural oils and fatty acids, as well as complex amino acids from soy, wheat, and other ingredients that are all-natural, Mielle Babassu Oil & Mint Deep Conditioner provides the right protein-moisture balance to hair strands. Safe even for color or chemically-treated hair.
Packed with 65 vitamins, antioxidants, and minerals, this deep conditioning mask is considered a rich gourmet treatment infused with a blend of pure blue-green algae. Furthermore, it has artistically blended mango butter and unrefined coca for maximum moisture. Also, a growth-stimulating biotin extract from algae is infused to make this unique softening cocktail for all hair types. 
An intense pampering treatment, the product is a must-have for maintaining moisturized and healthy curls and coils. Furthermore, it can also be used as part of your weekly routine or as a daily rinse-out conditioner. It’s rich, thick, and moisturizing. And the best thing is that it does not build up.
Love the range of naturally formulated products created to satisfy every curl and celebrate and boost your natural curls. Formulated to replenish lost moisture, minimize breakage, and fortify every hair strand, this product leaves your hair irresistibly strong and soft. Commonly known as UFD, it’s made with only the finest natural ingredients to promote hydration, curl formation and protection, and moisture. 
Conclusion
Deep conditioning your curly hair and doing it right not only nourishes it but also repairs damage and prevents further damage, such as breakage and split ends. The great thing about using a deep conditioner is that it helps keep your hair in its beautiful condition. Choose a product that works best for your curly hair type and check out the different deep conditioning products with the best ingredients to ensure success in your deep conditioning routine at home. Also, check out curly hair deep conditioning tips online and determine what is the best option for you.
FAQs
1) Does deep conditioning really work?
All types of hair, not just curly hair, can benefit from deep conditioning. Nevertheless, choosing the best deep hair conditioner is only part of the equation. How you apply it makes the difference in how it works on your hair. 
2) How often should I deep-condition damaged hair?
For damaged hair, regular treatment is recommended. Deep condition twice a week for the first couple of weeks and then use it once a week afterwards.
3) Can I use a regular conditioner to deep condition my curly hair?
Regular conditioners are for use after every shampoo. Deep hair conditioners, on the other hand, are more nourishing and crafted to be used once a week.
4) Can I leave a deep conditioner on my hair overnight?
No, it’s not recommended. Refer to the instructions on the label always and allow the mask to sit only for the duration of time stated. 
5) How do I know if I need deep conditioning?
You may need deep conditioning if you have unmanageable frizz, your hair is brittle with split ends, and your scalp is itchy or flaky. 
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/the-truth-cgm-hair-loss

August 16, 2024•6 min read ★
If you've been looking for a one stop shop for all your CGM products and education, Emerson has just want your curls need.
CGM also known as the Curly Girl Method. This method took the curly community by storm following the release of Lorraine Massey’s book in 2001. A method centered around the use of more gentle and natural ingredients for naturally curly hair, with some key principles that if adhered to will bring out the best in your natural curls. For example, the method recommends frequent co washing also known as conditioner washing over traditional shampoos as a co wash is considered one of the most gentle ways to cleanse your curls whilst imparting moisture.
A gentler more considered approach to curl care is something we at Emerson completely agree with. Curl care shouldn’t be rush but practiced with intentionality for real results. If you’re a CGM beginner you may have experienced this already, so our only question is do you want the good news or the good news first?
We say good news in both cases as what we are going to describe is ultimately positive for your curly hair journey.
Hair loss is one of top 3 hair concerns we, Emerson, have come across in our experience, evidenced by the ever growing size of the global hair loss and growth treatment market which is forecasted to grow to $6.335bn by 2032, according to business research insights.
Hair loss can be truly frustrating and demotivating on your hair journey. In some case it maybe necessary in order to birth healthier, strong hair strands.
Remember with curly hair in particular, strength is required right from the roots in order for effective distribution and delivery of moisture and nutrients through the natural bends, twists and kinks that make curly hair what it is.
There are several reasons you could be experiencing hair loss after adopting CGM, let’s explore this further.
The typical root cause of hair loss includes:
- 
Hair damage through use of or incorrect application of products and treatments containing harsh ingredients 
- 
Nutrient or vitamin deficiencies 
- 
Hormonal changes - related to pregnancy, any major surgery and aging 
- 
Stress related factors - major lifestyle changes, Work related stress, key life events 
Hypothetically, let’s assume the last 3 root causes can be eliminated and let’s view hair loss through the lens of your change in approach to haircare - the adoption of CGM.
Has the true condition of your hair been masked?
CGM focuses on natural and more gentle haircare as such you would have moved away from using products loaded with sulfates, parabens and silicones.
Did you know silicones are designed to mask the true condition of you hair and create an illusion of smooth, more aligned cuticles by coating the hair shaft and thus creating a barrier to protect from the elements?
In doing so, what silicones actually do is fill in the gaps of your hair artificially. Now, let’s dig into what silicones are actually made up of.
Silicones are synthetic compounds, emanating from silicon, a compound easily found in nature also known as silica, the primary component of sand. Crazy isn’t it? Silicone a common cosmetic enhancer is made of sand!
Digging deeper into understanding what makes up a product really does reveal the good, bad and UGLY! However it’s essential for us to really provide you with products that are backed by science and have been extensively research otherwise, how can we guarantee our clients real long lasting results on their curly hair journey?
Understanding the impact of the ugly truth
While silicones smooth the cuticle and fill in the gaps found in porous hair types, as it's a synthetic compound it naturally builds up quite heavily on the hair shaft.
Yes, the benefit is a natural barrier but is this at the expense of the hair receiving natural and proper moisture and hydration. Without proper hydration and moisture, curly hair cannot thrive. This is a natural craving for curly hair types without it our curls become more prone to dryness and thus breakage.
Let’s think about this from another angle, if we do not consume enough water and fluids, our body becomes dehydrated, if not addressed it can lead to flaky and dry skin (including the scalp), illness, joint pain, the list is endless, now imagine what happens to our hair strands.
The benefit of following CGM is that your hair becomes more exposed to natural ingredients that will contribute to your overall hair health - you'll notice your hair absorbs moisture better and can now receive the required protein building blocks to fill the gaps in your hair shaft the right way - with what the hair was naturally designed to have.
Is hard water really a thing?
Unfortunately, it is. Hard water occurs when there is a concentration of mineral build up in water. Minerals such as calcium, copper and magnesium. So essentially the more dissolved minerals the hard the water. The UAE and the Middle East region more generally is known to have hard water.
Hard water is a concern as it can have adverse effects on both the hair and skin. The heightened concentration of these minerals in your water can result in dry, moisture stripped hair despite what appears to be hydration with the add on effect of clogged pores from the excess mineral deposits left. The ultimate result is breakage prone hair.
To combat this, we highly recommend the use of water filter which will remove bacteria and impurities before the water is dispensed through the shower head. Obtaining a water filter is fairly easy with popular brands such as Swiss Blu, H2O PureBlue readily available. To enjoy the long term benefits of a water filter, its imperative the filter is changed at least quarterly – semi-annually.
In addition to this a chelating or clarifying shampoo such as Kinky Curly Come Clean pictured below, should be incorporated into your regimen once every 4 weeks, to give your curls a clean slate in order for your products to work correctly – increased moisture absorption and improved styling results.
Be rest assured, Emerson has you covered on your CGM journey, with a well researched portfolio of CG products in the UAE. Shop CG Approved products here.
A final truth behind CGM related hair loss
As we've noted throughout this blog post, CGM in itself is not the driver of hair loss, however the process of undoing, unlearning and relearning can be a driver of initial hair loss seen. This can be a natural byproduct as an artificial layer is removed from your hair and you progress on a journey to improve the overall condition of your natural curls.
We will leave you with this last point, ensure you are using the right moisturising techniques, as we've echoed throughout this post dry curls are more breakage prone. Not applying the right moisturising conditioner or leave in based on your hair porosity can set you back as your products simply do not penetrate the hair shaft as required. Please refer to the " Focus Areas based on Hair Porosity" section in our earlier blog post here.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/transitioning-101-are-you-ready-to-embrace-your-natural-hair-texture

May 08, 2024•2 min read ★
Transitioning 101
If you’re considering embarking on the journey to embrace your natural hair texture, you are about to make a game changing decision! We can’t wait to have you join our community.
Many wonder - can you change your hair texture naturally, While you can't alter genetics, proper hydration, trimming, and a clean product regimen can redefine your curl pat.
Returning to your natural texture is definitely a rewarding journey, however commitment and patience are required.
The first phase requires a gradual stretch of your chemical straightening treatment. This can last anywhere from 3-9 months.
Keys to getting through this phase: decrease heat usage, reduce excessive combing, brushing and manipulation when styling.
The next likely phase is shedding whilst your new growth and natural texture emerges.
Shedding tends to occur in phases and may coincide with the time in which you would typically go for your chemical straightening treatment but don't be alarmed!
The good news is shedding does subside but tangling and breakage may persist as your new natural texture comes through. The best approach is to wait it out whilst maintaining a solid healthy hair regimen.
Shedding is completely normal and occasionally we can enter phases of heavy shedding due to hormonal fluctuations and environmental changes.
Detangling and conditioning should be a key focus during this phase.
Use a detangler that contains hydrating ingredients that provide a lot of slip to help minimise tension caused when detangling.
Condition regularly during this phase, this will increase manageability and build strength back into your strands.
If you need assistance building an appropriate regimen feel free to contact us, we would love to assist you on your hair journey!
If you want to get started right away with the most appropriate products, click here to shop our Transitioning product collection.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/unlocking-the-secrets-to-luscious-curls-texture-hair-care-unveiled-1

January 03, 2024•2 min read ★
1. You are using the wrong products
You may have fallen victim to marketing gimmicks. The ingredient list of your hair growth products is crucial to hair growth success.
Many products on the market are loaded with cheap mineral oils and sub part ingredients which do not stimulate hair growth.
2. Incorrect information - Hair growth is two-fold.
Whilst focus should be on the scalp, extra care must be given to the length of your hair. The right hair growth regimen should focus on products and a routine that enable both to thrive.
3. Your scalp pores are clogged
If your scalp pores are clogged and you have significant product build up there's no way for product to correctly absorb. You are simply overloading your hair and scalp.
4. Unhealthy hair habits
Without the right healthy hair habits your efforts could go to waste. Cultivating the right habits along with the appropriate products can expedite your results. Healthy hair habits such as tension free styling, correct cleansing methods, moisture retention practices are key.
5. You're using the wrong benchmark
Your hair journey is unique to you and should be compared with someone else's. This is particular evident when individuals with tighter curl patterns compare their growth with looser curl patterns. Shrinkage may not allow you to see just how far you have come.
If you're ready to take your hair growth game to another level with the right information and appropriate products, click here to shop our Hair Growth & Length Retention product collection!
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.


Source: https://www.emersonhairandbeauty.com/blogs/news/wet-curls-and-damage

September 12, 2024•6 min read ★
This is a question we get so often. If we’ve been a part of your curly hair journey over the last couple of years. You would know this is a complete NO-NO. Wet curls and sleeping do not mix. We know it’s common particularly if you’re short on time but to want to deep condition overnight or allow your wet curls to air dry overnight but this can be tremendously damaging, let’s explain.
Hygral fatigue and your curls
Have you heard of the term hygral fatigue?
Hygral fatigue occurs when textured hair becomes damaged as a result of continued pressure on the hair fibre during periods of expansion and contraction. The expansion of the hair fiber occurs when the hair is wet, contraction occurs when it’s dry. If the hair is in an expansionary state for too long it can lead to a loss of elasticity, leading the hair to have a mushy or gummy like feel. Additionally, an excessive extension of curly hair textures in the expansionary phase for longer than optimal suggests that water has found its way to the inner most layer of the fiber and swollen to multiples – 1 – 3x its normal weight. What is this extra weight? It’s water weight.
Let’s put this into perspective, imagine what it would be like if you had double your body weight placed on your shoulders for hours on end? Not only will you be left fatigued, you’ll be left with chronic shoulder pain as our bodies are not designed to hold such weight for an extended period of time. Now, go back and view this through the lens of your curls, you could argue that your curls will eventually dry but at what rate? If it’s a quick refresh that needs to dry, this should ideally be no longer than 30-45 mins, this could be acceptable but we certainly would not recommend this to be repeated frequently.
Another reason people with curly hair may choose to sleep with wet hair is to get the “extra” conditioning benefits that supposedly come with leaving a conditioning treatment on for longer than suggested on the product instructions. It’s one thing to get carried away multi-tasking that you forget to wash out your deep conditioner in time - we’ve all fallen victim to the multi-tasking trap when short on time! However, doing so intentionally and repeatedly, poses a number of risks to your curls – over conditioned curls lose elasticity because the hair has absorbed more than the required amount of moisture, curls that are over conditioned lack bounce, appear more frizzy, gummy and stretchy, and are significantly more prone to breakage as the hair shaft has weakened, leading to split ends.
How long should I condition to get the maximum conditioning benefits?
For deep conditioning treatments specifically scientists have told us that conditioning beyond 30-45mins provides no incremental benefits as your curls would have absorbed all the required moisture and nutrients in that time. However, our recommendation is through the lens of hair porosity levels. For high porosity curls, there is no benefit going beyond this. For low porosity curls, there could be a low % of incremental benefit assuming you are not using heat. We always advise low porosity curl types to utilise some form of heat for greater penetration and absorption in the hair shaft to help cut back on time spent conditioning.
According to Dr Ali Syed the mastermind behind As I Am, in his book titled, Curly Hair, Structure, Properties and Care, states the optimal treatment time for low porosity curls is approx. 20-25 mins to which is an additional 10-15 mins to enjoy the same conditioning benefits via the level of absorption and penetration in the hair cortex as high porosity curls.
With all our blog posts, we aim to give you relevant and reliable hair education for your curls without becoming extremely technical that you miss the key points. A relevant piece of hair education here is a high-level scientific understanding of what happens to our curls as they become wet. Hydrogen bonds, these bonds are responsible for hair’s ability to stretch i.e. hair elasticity. Hydrogen bonds are temporary (remember this key word – temporary!) and can be reconfigured or broken by water in order for new ones to form which allows for reshaping or restyling of your curls.
Wet curls and friction
Another reason to avoid sleeping with wet curls is due to the friction caused by unconscious movement when we sleep. Silk and satin fabrics provide the ultimate friction and frizz protection at night; however, this is on the basis that your curls are in their natural state. Wet curls have a higher chance of becoming extremely tangled especially curly hair, curls can become interlinked and hard to unravel without excessive tension used with a detangling brush or comb which yet still will lead to unnecessary breakage.
Sleeping with wet curls on silk or satin materials can also open your hair and scalp up to a bacteria and fungi which results in mould, most especially if you have not washed your silk or satin bonnet or scarf recently or regularly. This can lead to endless scalp issues and ultimately derail all the efforts made on your healthy hair journey.
Remember: Your curls are weakest and most vulnerable when wet, while this statement may appear concerning or negative at first glance, there are some positives, wet curls are easier to manipulate creating the perfect environment for styling for curl definition and elongation but the above risks should be taken into consideration.
Key takeaways for consideration:
- Sleeping with wet curls can lead to extremely damaged curls if done repeatedly.
- The degree of how wet your curls are is a key consideration, for example if you’ve just done a quick refresh of your curls vs. a full wash day routine.
- Hygral fatigue is real!
- Sleeping with wet curls is what we consider NOT to be a healthy hair habit and we do not recommend this.
- Scientifically speaking there are limited benefits to conditioning your curls beyond 30 mins, particularly, if you are using heat and have low porosity curls. Up to an hour is safe for low porosity hair provided that heat is not available to use.
- Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.
